C
ompl ying with Education Law Article 129-B 
New York State Education  
I-              
Introduction:  
T
his guidance document is joint guidance of the State Education Department and the New York 
State Office of Campus Safety.  It is intended to assist colleges and universities in complying 
with Education Law Article 129-B, as added by Chapter 76 of the Laws of 2015, relating to the 
establishment of sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking prevention and 
response policies and procedures. Article 129 -B includes §§ 6439-6449 of the Education Law.  
II
-           History of the Legislation:  
G
overnor Andrew Cuomo introduced comprehensive sexual assault prevention legislation as part 
of the 2015 Executive Budget . Final legislation was passed unanimously in the Senate (S.5965, 
sponsored by Senator LaValle) and 138-4 in the Assembly (A.8244, sponsored by Assemblymem ber Glick)  on June 17, 2015. On July 7, 2015, Governor Cuomo signed the bill 
into law as Chapter 76 of the Laws of 2015. 
A
rticle 129 -B (except for the provisions regarding Climate Surveys [ Education Law §6445] and 
Reporting Aggregate Data to the Department  [Education Law §6449]) became effective October 
5, 2015. The Climate Survey and Aggregate Data sections take effect in July 2016 with the provisions applying for the 2016-2017 academic year. 
III
-         Rulemaking:  
The State Education Department (SED) is required by Education Law §6449(4) to adopt 
regulations by July 2017 relating to the reporting of aggregate data, in consultation w ith 
representatives of SUNY, CUNY, and the private and independent colleges. 
IV-        
Compliance:    
E
ach institution is  required by Education Law §6440(1) to adopt written rules implementing this 
article by amending its code of conduct or other comparable policies. A copy of these rules and policies must be filed with SED on or before July 1, 2016. Updated policies must be filed at least 
every 10 years, except that the second filing shall coincide with the required filing of a certificate 
of compliance under Article 129 -A of the Education Law, and co ntinue on the same cycle 
thereafter .  
1
 Institutions must also  file a certificate of compliance with the provisions of this article  with SED 
on July 1, 2016. If an institution fails to file a certificate of compliance on or before September 1, 
2016, and annually thereafter, the institution will be ineligible for any State aid or assistance 
until the certificate is filed.  
 SED will conduct random audits , at any time  after September 1, 2016 to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of this article.  
 
V- Provisions and Guidance:  
  
For ease of reference, the following sections appear in the order of the provisions in the 
legislation. Text from the legislation is in italics , and guidance is in regular text.  
  
Where the legislation places text in quotes, it must be adopted using that l anguage. Other than 
quoted passages, the legislation requires conceptual elements, but does not require any specific 
word or sentence.  Institutions that use slightly different words for covered concepts with the 
same substantive meaning may use the term c onsistent with their other policies, even in quoted 
sentences. For instance, if an institution refers to permanent removal of a student as “dismissal,” in current policies or guidance, it need not change that to “expulsion” to comply with the 
legislative r equirement of a transcript notation for cases of expulsion but can say “dismissed” in 
the notation instead. 
  
The law requires that each concept be included in policy, but does not require that the elements be in any specific order. While a college may hav e a single policy incorporating all elements 
within the code of conduct, it may also take each paragraph and incorporate it into the section of the code of conduct where it is most relevant, so students do not have to hunt around in different sections and cross -compare in order to make sense of the policies. Or , an institution may have 
both, provided that they are consistent.  
 
Definitions (Section 6439):  
  
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings:  
  1. “Institution” shall mean any college or university chartered by the regents or incorporated by special act of the legislature that maintains a campus in New York.  
  
The legislation defines institution to mean any college or university chartered by the R egents or 
incorporated by special act of the legislature that maintains a campus.  This is precisely the same 
definition as in Education Law 129- A, and any institutions that have traditionally been covered 
by that law are also covered by 129- B. 
2   
2. “Title IX Coordinator” shall mean the Title IX Coordinator and/or his or her designee or designees.  
  This is important for those requirements the legislation assigns to the Title IX Coordinator. Institutions may allow a Title IX Coordinator to delegate those roles to other individuals. Note that such designee is not required by the law to be denoted a “Deputy Title IX Coordinator” and 
there is no requirement that all obligations be designated to the same person or group of people. 
Institutions should use good faith to designate personnel  best able to complete the requirements. 
This is consistent with current federal law and guidance on the role of the Title IX Coordinator.  
  
3. “Bystander” shall mean a person who observes a crime, impending crime, conflict, potentially 
violent or violent  behavior, or conduct that is in violation of rules or policies of an institution.  
 Under the definitions in the statute, a bystander is an individual who witnesses or learns of 
violence or impending violence, but is not directly impacted as a victim or survivor of this 
violence. They do not have equivalent rights under federal or s tate l aw as a “reporting 
individual” (victim) who is directly impacted by the violence.  
 
A bystander does not become a “reporting individual” when they bring forth a report. They 
remain a bystander.  
 
4. “Code of conduct” shall mean the written policies adopted by an institution governing student behavior, rights, and responsibilities while such student is matriculated in the institution.  
  Code of conduct is intended to reference the document or documents that an institution uses to govern student behavior.  This  does not require that each institution use the name “Code of 
Conduct.”  Some institutions refer to this as an “Honor Code” or “Judicial Code” or a number of 
other names.  Whatever name is used by the institution, where the legislation uses code of 
conduct , it is referencing that document.  
 Note that the definition of Code of Conduct in 129- B may differ from the definition of Code of 
Conduct in 129- A. 
  5. “Confidentiality” may be offered by an individual who is not required by law to report known incidents  of sexual assault or other crimes to institution officials, in a manner consistent with 
state and federal law, including but not limited to 20 U.S.C. 1092(f) and 20 U.S.C. 1681(a). Licensed mental health counselors, medical providers and pastoral counselors are examples of institution employees who may offer confidentiality.  
  
3 6. “Privacy” may be offered by an individual when such individual is unable to offer 
confidentiality under the law but shall still not disclose information learned from a reporting individual or bystander to a crime or incident more than necessary to comply with this and other 
applicable laws, including informing appropriate institution officials. Institutions may substitute another relevant term having the same meaning, as appropriat e to the policies of the institution.  
  Confidentiality is a defined term under the statute , and the obligation to keep information in 
confidence is inherent for certain professionals on campus, such as health care providers , 
licensed social workers, licen sed psychologists and pastoral and professional counselors  
(including licensed mental health counselors) . Many off -campus resources such as rape crisis 
centers are also confidential, and with the exception of certain child abuse and imminent threats, 
individuals working in such organizations have no obligation to report information back to the 
reporting individual’s campus.    Most employees at an institution are required to report known incidents of sexual assault , or 
other crimes, so they are not confidential resources. Still, most college employees can offer “privacy.”  Privacy is the default.  It means that an employee may have to share information pursuant to federal or state law or college policy with certain other college employees, but they will not share the private information beyond what is required or needed to comply with law and 
policy, and will otherwise limit redisclosure as much as possible. They may not however, offer 
true confidentiality. Each institution should determine  which employees ma y offer true 
confidentiality as opposed to privacy.  
  7. “Accused” shall mean a person accused of a violation who has not yet entered an institution’s 
judicial or conduct process. 
  8. “Respondent” shall mean a person accused of a violation who has entered an institution’s judicial or conduct process. 
  
9. “Reporting individual” shall encompass the terms victim, survivor, complainant, claimant, witness with victim status, and any other term used by an institution to reference an individual who brings forth a report of a violation.  
  Institutions may use different words to describe the various roles in the campus conduct or complaint process. These definitions are included to ensure an understanding of the stated rights for the parties that are provided withi n the legislation. The legislation does not require that each 
college use this nomenclature, it merely states that, whatever the institution calls the people who meet these definitions, these are the rights and responsibilities that apply to those individuals.  
The term reporting individual is limited in the statute to those directly impacted by the violation  
4 as victims . A bystander to a violation, or a third party who reports information about a violation 
that they have learned from a victim, is not themselves a reporting individual. 
  
10. “Sexual activity” shall have the same meaning as “sexual act” and “sexual contact” as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2246(2) and 18 U.S.C. 2246(3).  
  In order to determine when affirmative consent is required prior to sexual activity, this 
legislation first defines “sexual activity.”  Rather than developing a new definition, the 
legislation refers to a current definition used by the federal government.  18 U.S.C. 2246(2) -(3) 
states that:   
“(2) the term “sexual act” means — 
 
A. contact between the penis and the vulva or the penis and the anus, and for purposes of 
this subparagraph contact involving the penis occurs upon penetration, however slight;  
B. contact between the mouth and the penis, the mouth and the vulva, or the mouth and t he 
anus;  
C. the penetration, however slight, of the anal or genital opening of another by a hand or 
finger or by any object, with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade, or arouse or 
gratify the sexual desire of any person; or  
D. the intentional touching , not through the clothing, of the genitalia of another person who 
has not attained the age of 16 years with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade, or 
arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person;  
 (3) the term “sexual contact” means the intentional touching, either directly or through the 
clothing, of the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or buttocks of any person with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade, or arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person.”  
  
Individua ls must obtain affirmative consent prior to engaging in any of the activity referenced 
above. 
  11. “Domestic violence”, “dating violence”, “stalking” and “sexual assault” shall be defined 
by each institution in its code of conduct in a manner consistent w ith applicable federal 
definitions.  
  
To assist colleges in preventing and responding to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
assault and stalking, the legislation makes reference to the Clery Act
1 provisions of the Higher 
1 All references to the Clery Act in this guidance reflect the law as most recently amended by the 2013 
Reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act.  
5                                                 Education Act, as amended by the Violence Against Women Act.  The relevant definitions 
appear at pages 62784 and 62789- 62790 of the Violence Against Women Act Final Rule, 34 
C.F.R. § 668.46, available at  http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR -2014 -10-20/pdf/2014- 24284.pdf .  
  
General Provisions (Section 6440):  
  
1. Every institution shall:  
  a. adopt writ ten rules implementing this article by amending its code of conduct or other 
comparable policies;  
   
b. annually file with the department on or before the first day of July, beginning in two thousand 
sixteen, a certificate of compliance with the provisions  of this article; and 
  SED  will prepare and distribute  a certificate for this purpose, similar to  the form provided by  
SED under Article 129 -A. 
  c. file a copy of all written rules and policies adopted as required in this article with the department on or before the first day of July, two thousand sixteen, and once every ten years 
thereafter, except that the second filing shall coincide with the required filing under article one 
hundred twenty -nine-A of this chapter, and continue on the same cycle thereafter.  
  These provisions are meant to be aligned with the requirements of 129 -A. The change to 
coordinate the second filing with the 129- A filing was made to cut down on the burden for 
institutions, rather than having institutions file forms in separate decennial cycles. SED  will 
develop a process for institutions  to submit copies of their written rules and policies to SED 
electronically . 
  
2. All institutional services and protections afforded to reporting individuals under this article 
shall be  available to all students and applicable to conduct that has a reasonable connection to 
that institution. When such conduct involves students or employees from two or more institutions, such institutions may work collaboratively to address the conduct provided that such 
collaboration complies with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act codified at 20 
U.S.C. 1232g; 34 C.F.R. Part 99.   Education Law 129- B is not limited by the geographic reporting categories of the Clery Act. The 
rights and responsibilities of the law apply based on identity of the reporting individual and/or accused/ respondent, not based on the geographic location of the violation. 
 
6 FERPA has waiver provisions that allow institutions to share the records of students participating 
in joint programs, and, in certain cases, allow record sharing with third parties. This legislation encourages such sharing, within the bounds of federal and  state law, to assist each institution 
with its compliance with this law, as well as relevant federal laws inclu ding Title IX and the 
Clery Act . 
  3. If an institution fails to file a certificate of compliance on or before September first beginning 
in two thousand sixteen, such institution shall be ineligible to receive state aid or assistance until 
it files such a certificate. The department shall conduct audits of institutions by random selection, at any time after September first, two thousand sixteen, t o ensure compliance with the 
provisions of this article, and shall post information and statistics regarding compliance with 
this article on the department’s website.  
  
This section describes audits by SED  and potential penalties for non- compliance. As sta ted later 
in the description of subdivision 9, there shall be no new private right of action. 
  
4. A copy of such rules and policies shall be provided by each institution to all students enrolled in said institution using a method and manner appropriate to its institutional culture. Each institution shall also post such rules and policies on its website in an easily accessible manner to 
the public. 
  Institutions must provide a copy of the rules and policies required by the legislation to each 
student “using a method and manner appropriate to its institutional culture.” This provides significant flexibility to institutions who should use good faith to provide these policies in a 
manner aimed to educate, not to check a compliance box. The policies can be compiled together 
or placed in the appropriate sections of the code of conduct and must be available on the 
institution’s web site. 
  
5. The protections in this article apply regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, creed, 
age, disabilit y, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, familial status, pregnancy, 
predisposing genetic characteristics, military status, domestic violence victim status, or criminal conviction. 
  
The law is clear that membership in a ny protected class  does not reduce one’s protections under 
this law. T hese categories are intended to match current federal and New York State 
discrimination law protected categories.  
  6. The provisions of this article shall apply regardless of whether the violation occurs  on 
campus, off campus, or while studying abroad.   
7 Education Law 129- B is not limited in any way by the geographic reporting categories of the 
Clery Act. The rights and  responsibilities of Article 129 -B law apply based on identity of the 
reporting individual and/or accused/ respondent, not based on the geographic location of the 
violation. 
  7. Institutions shall, where appropriate, utilize applicable state and federal law, regulations, and guidance in wr iting the policies required pursuant to this article.  
  A list of resources at the end of this guidance document may assist institutions in drafting policies.
2 
  
8. Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit in any way the provisions of the penal law 
that apply to the criminal action analogous to the student conduct code violations referenced herein. Action pursued through the criminal justice process shall be governed by the penal law and the criminal procedure law. 
  
This subdivision is to make c lear that 129- B is distinct from criminal justice process, and vice 
versa. The processes have different purposes and use different standards and methods.   
A team of attorneys from public and private colleges developed a resource to assist colleges in 
comp lying with th e requirement to educate reporting individuals about the differences in the 
criminal and conduct process.  The resource may be accessed in Word or PDF format at this site:  
http://system.suny.edu/sexual -violenc e-prevention- workgroup/College -and-Criminal- Resource/
3 
  
9. Nothing in this article shall be construed to create a new private right of action for any 
person.  This is the equivalent to a provision in the Clery Act. 
 
10. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent an institution from continuing an investigation when required by law to continue such investigation.   
This paragraph is in place to acknowledge the separate and independent responsibility of 
colleges and universities to investigate viol ations when required by law, regardless of whether a 
2  Please note that the list resources attached to this document have not been reviewed and/or endorsed by SED and 
are provided solely as resources developed by other attorneys and/or institutions to assist higher education 
institutions in developing their own policies and procedures to comply with this new law.  
3 Please note that the list resources attached to this document have not been reviewed and/or endorsed by SED and 
are provided solely as resources developed by other attorneys and/or institutions to assist higher education 
institutions in developing their own policies and procedures to comply with this new law.  
8                                                 reporting individual or any other witness chooses to participate in the institution’s process  and 
regardless of a decision within the  criminal justice process  whether or not to proceed investigate.  
 
 Affirmative Consent to Sexual Activity (Section 6441):  
  
1. Every institution shall adopt the following definition of affirmative consent as part of its code of conduct: “Affirmative consent is a knowing, voluntary, and mutual decision among all 
participants to engage in sexual activity. Consent can be given by words or actions, as long as 
those words or actions create clear permission regarding willingness to engage in the sexual activity. Silence or lack of resistance, in and of itself, does not demonstrate consent. The definition of consent does not vary based upon a participant’s sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, or gender expression.”  
  
2. Each institution’s code of conduct shall reflect the following principles as guidance for the institution’s  community:  
  a. Consent to any sexual act or prior consensual sexual activity between or with any party does not necessarily constitute consent to any other sexual act.   
b. Consent is required regardless of whether the person initiating the act is under the influence 
of drugs and/or alcohol.   
c. Consent may be initially given but withdrawn at any time.  
  
d. Consent cannot be given when a person is incapacitated, which occurs when an individual 
lacks the ability to knowingly choose to participate in sexual activity. Incapacitation may be caused by the lack of consciousness or being asleep, being involuntarily restrained, or if an individual otherwise cannot consent. Depending on the degree of intoxication, someone who is 
under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or other intoxicants may be incapacitated and therefore 
unable to consent.   e. Consent cannot be given when it is the result of any coercion, intimidation, force, or threat of 
harm. 
  f. When consent is withdrawn or can no longer be given, sexual activity must stop.  
  
The provisions in the first paragraph must be included verbatim in each code of conduct. The 
provisions in the second paragraph must be included conceptually in each code of conduct, but they do not have to be included verbatim (insti tutions may include them verbatim).  
  
9 Consent must be knowing, voluntary and mutual. 
 Voluntary consent means that consent under coercion such as a threat of violence is not consent. 
Mutual means that all parties must consent. 
  There is no requirement under the definition of consent that there be “verbal” consent or a specific statement of yes. To require a verbal statement would be to exclude hearing and 
speaking impaired students from consenting to sexual activity. Consent can be given through 
words or a ctions so long as the word or action is clear regarding willingness to engage in the 
sexual activity. The legislation says that silence “in and of itself” is not consent; a reporting individual failing to say no or actively resist  is not a defense to a charge of sexual activity 
without consent. Please be advised that t his is a departure from New York State Penal Law  
relating to criminal charges . 
   
It is common for individuals to engage in multiple sexual acts or sexual contacts during a brief 
time period ( See §6430(10) above for definitions of activity included in sexual act and sexual 
contact). Whether through words or actions that clearly display consent, each party must 
affirmatively consent to participating in each sexual act or sexual contact. Consenti ng to one type 
of sexual act or contact is not blanket consent to any and all types of sexual contacts. Mutual 
consent is required for each and may be withdrawn at any time by either party. When consent is 
withdrawn, the activity must stop. The phrase “[w] hen consent...can no longer be given” refers to 
a party to a sexual act or sexual contact who initially consents to the activity but during the 
course of the activity falls asleep or otherwise becomes unconscious or incapacitated. At that point, the other party must stop the sexual activity or contact, and stopping at the point that 
consent is withdrawn or can no longer be given, can be asserted as a defense to a charge of 
sexual activity or contact without consent.   Pursuant to paragraph (2)( b), being intoxicated is not a license to engage in sexual activity with 
another person without their consent. Students who are charged in student judicial or conduct process  with initiating  sexual activity or contact without the consent of another party c annot use 
as a defense that they themselves were under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol at the time they committed the violation.  
  Individuals who are incapacitated cannot consent to sexual activity or contact. Incapacitation is to be determined by a  student conduct or investigation process based on available evidence, 
acknowledging that in almost no cases will scientific evidence of alcohol or drug level (such as a 
breathalyzer taken at the time of the assault) be available. There is no single standard or number 
of drinks that leads to incapacitation. This level varies for different people, and may depend in part on their age, gender, height, weight, metabolism and whether and how much they have recently eaten. This provision does not mean that indivi duals cannot affirmatively consent to 
10 sexual activity or contact when they have been drinking or using drugs. Such individuals may 
still affirmatively consent through words or actions that clearly indicate interest in engaging in the activity.  
 Someone who is unconscious, asleep, or involuntarily restrained cannot consent to sexual activity.  
  
Minors who cannot consent under New York’s laws covering age of consent are considered 
incapacitated  for purposes of §6441(2)(d)  (See New York Penal Law Article 130  et seq.).  
 Whether all parties consented to sexual activity or contact is to be determined through the 
student conduct or grievance process. Per S ection 6444(5)(c)(ii) below, respondents have a “right 
to a presumption that the respondent is ‘ not responsible ’ until a finding of responsibility is made 
pursuant to the provisions of this article.” This means that the burden of showing that a student 
had sexual activity or contact with another without affirmative consent as defined here is on the 
institution, n ot on the respondent to prove a negative. Note that the burden is on the institution to 
develop these facts, not on the reporting individual, who may participate at the level to which he 
or she is comfortable. Through the process, appropriate officials may  listen to witnesses and 
review available evidence to make a determination, to the best of their ability, whether it is more 
likely than not that a policy violation occurred.  
  
Policy for Alcohol and/or Drug Use Amnesty (Section 6442):  
  
1. Every institution shall adopt and implement the following policy as part of its code of conduct: 
“The health and safety of every student at the [Institution] is of utmost importance. [Institution] 
recognizes that students who have been drinking and/or using drugs (whether such use is voluntary or involuntary) at the time that violence, including but not limited to domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault occurs may be hesitant to report such 
incidents due to fear of potential consequences f or their own conduct. [Institution] strongly 
encourages students to report domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault to 
institution officials. A bystander acting in good faith or a reporting individual acting in good faith that disclo ses any incident of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault 
to [Institution’s] officials or law enforcement will not be subject to [Institution’s] code of conduct action for violations of alcohol and/or drug use policies occurring at or near the time of the commission of the domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault.”  
  
2. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit an institution’s ability to provide amnesty in 
additional circumstances.   
11 The legislation contains provisions that provide amnesty to students reporting incidents under 
this Article from internal institutional violations for drug or alcohol use. This subdivision does not require amnesty for drug dealers or those who use drugs or  alcohol as a weapon or to 
facilitate assault. It covers personal drug use and possession whether intentional or accidental.  
 The point of this subdivision is to remove the fear of those who have, legally or illegally, been using or in the presence of drug s or alcohol at or near the time of the commission of the domestic 
violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault , 
 that the college would take conduct action 
related to the use of drugs or alcohol rather than action on the sexual or interpersonal violence  
  
Note that this provision only covers the student disciplinary process. The legislation does not 
cover the criminal justice process (but see  New York State Good Samaritan Law , Penal Law 
§220.78) , does not cover areas outside of conduct, and does not apply to employees  of the 
institution . Note that many higher education institutions operate clinical or residency placements 
where the prohibition on drug and alcohol use in the workplace is governed by federal or state 
law or regulation, national standards or accreditation requirements. F or example, if a student 
reports being sexually assaulted  in a hospital residency placement while under the influence of 
prescription drugs stolen from the hospital pharmacy, this s ection would not prevent the student 
from being removed from the placement or from having restrictions placed on participation in the placement.  The student would have amnesty from student judicial or conduct charges for that 
prescription drug use.  
  
This s ection does not limit a college from seeking assistance for a student who is struggling w ith 
drug or alcohol addiction or is otherwise in danger provided that the assistance is not disciplinary 
in nature.   
“Occurring at or near the time of the commission” is not defined  in the law , and should be 
implemented reasonably and in good faith by ins titutions.  
  
Students’ Bill of Rights (Section 6443):  
  
Every institution shall adopt and implement the following “Students’ Bill of Rights” as part of its 
code of conduct which shall be distributed annually to students, made available on each institution’s website, posted in campus residence halls and campus c enters, and shall include 
links or information to file a report and seek a response, pursuant to section sixty -four hundred 
forty -four of this article, and the options for confidential disclosure pursuant to section sixty -four 
hundred forty -six of this article: “All students have the right to: 1. Make a report to local law 
enforcement and/or state police; 2. Have disclosures of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault treated seriously; 3. Make a decision about whether or not to 
disclose a crime or violation and participate in the judicial or conduct process and/or criminal 
12 justice process free from pressure by the institution; 4. Participate in a process that is fair, 
impartial, and provides adequate notice and a meaningful opportuni ty to be heard; 5. Be treated 
with dignity and to receive from the institution courteous, fair, and respectful health care and 
counseling services, where available; 6. Be free from any suggestion that the reporting 
individual is at fault when these crimes and violations are committed, or should have acted in a different manner to avoid such crimes or violations; 7. Describe the incident to as few institution representatives as practicable and not be required to unnecessarily repeat a description of the 
incident; 8. Be protected from retaliation by the institution, any student, the accused and/or the 
respondent, and/or their friends, family and acquaintances within the jurisdiction of the 
institution; 9. Access to at least one level of appeal of a determinati on; 10. Be accompanied by 
an advisor of choice who may assist and advise a reporting individual, accused, or respondent 
throughout the judicial or conduct process including during all meetings and hearings related to 
such process; and 11. Exercise civil ri ghts and practice of religion without interference by the 
investigative, criminal justice, or judicial or conduct process of the institution.”  
  
The student bill of rights is intended to be a brief but overarching document to set the 
expectations for stude nts. Specific requirements appear in the sections below. This section is 
aimed at educating students as to  their rights under this legislation . The law requires that the bill 
of rights be widely distributed but gives options to institutions as to how to di stribute it in a way 
that maximizes dissemination to as many students as possible . While all concepts must be 
included, institutions may present them in a different order, split or re -combine them (such as in 
training documents or social media) and make mi nor, non- substantive changes for readability, 
understandability or consistency. Posted documents should include URL links, shortened URL’s, QR codes, or other methods of informing students of the availability and location of other 
relevant policies required by the law.   
  
Subdivisions 1 and 2 speak for themselves.  
  
For Subdivision 3, the  Clery Act, 20 U.S.C § 1092(f)(8) (B)(iii)(III)(aa)- (cc), requires 
institutions to provide students with three options:  
                             
● “(aa) notify proper law enforcement  authorities, including on- campus and local police;  
● (bb) be assisted by campus authorities in notifying law enforcement authorities if the 
victim so choose s; and  
● (cc) decline to notify such authorities.”  
  
This s ubdivision of the Bill of Rights means  that institutions must be neutral in providing these 
options and neither encourage or discourage students from choosing a specific option. While 
institutions should advise potential reporting individuals about the pros and cons of specific options, report ing individuals should control their own decision- making.  
13   
Subdivision 4 is consistent with the Clery  Act and is further expanded upon in Section 6444. 
  
Subdivision 5 is consistent with federal law and requires institutions to provide reporting 
individuals access to medical and counseling resources, where available. While encouraged, there is no requirement to create resources not currently available. Resources may al so be 
available in the community or through s tatewide or national organizations.   
  Subdivision 6 relates to the investigative process  involving student reporting individuals . A 
number of reporting individuals have historically reported that, upon reporti ng sexual or 
interpersonal violence, the first responder questions them about their dress, actions, or fault in 
the incident . This is not appropriate. C onsistent with best practices adopted by national law 
enforcement organizations and practiced by many in  higher education, those working with 
reporting individuals should use trauma -informed questioning tactics which stick to the violative 
behavior, and do not question whether a reporting individual is partly at fault due to their decisions about dress, atte ndance, or use of alcohol or drugs. This does not mean, however, that 
an institution is prohibited from investigating significant inconsistencies that could be evidence 
of a false or partially false report. Institutions must take the approach of accepting complaints 
from reporting individuals and treating those individuals with respect and dignity. Officials 
trained in the neurobiology of trauma will understand that slight deviations in recounting a 
situation are typical, but a full and fair investigation i ncludes exploring inconsistencies. This is 
consistent with Section 6444(5)(c)(ii) regarding burden of proof requirements that provide the 
right to have a “ complaint investigated and adjudicated in an impartial, timely, and thorough 
manner by individuals who receive annual training in conducting investigations of sexual 
violence, the effects of trauma, impartiality, ” and guarantees the rights of a respondent, 
“including the right to a presumption that the respondent is “not responsible” until a finding of 
responsibility is made pursuant to the provisions of this article and the institution’s policies and 
procedures .” While institutions must not sanction and assign responsibility without establishing 
the elements of a violation, so too, they should approach re porting individuals in a fair and open 
way, informed by the effects of trauma on reporters. 
  Subdivision 7 is an important provision to protect students from having to unnecessarily repeat 
their description of what occurred such that eventually, exhausted, they withdraw from the 
process. The subdivision says “as few as practicable” not “as few as possible.” T his means that 
an institution may still have a student repeat a story for legitimate reasons, which may include repeated stories prior to student conduct charges, a Title IX investigation, interviews with law 
enforcement, etc. An example where a student sh ould not be asked to repeat a description would 
occur where a student reports to a Title IX Coordinator that they were assaulted by a student who 
lives across the hall from their residence hall room and is in their biology lab. In such a case, the reportin g individual should not have to repeat the entire description to the hall director, residence 
14 life leadership, their biology professor and/or the academic affairs office. Rather, the Title IX 
Coordinator should be empowered to contact each required office/ individual on the reporting 
individual’s behalf, to arrange for the appropriate accommodations.  
  Subdivision 8 is a brief description of the retaliation provisions  required by the  Clery Act and 
referenced by the Office for Civil Rights in Dear Colleague l etters. While an  institution cannot 
prevent all retaliation , it should prohibit retaliation and act within  its abilities to take action, 
where retaliation is found to have occurred by someone within the institution’s jurisdiction.   Subdivision 9 is furthe r expanded upon in Section 6444. 
 
Subdivision 10 allows a student to be accompanied by an advisor of choice to assist and advise 
the reporting individual, consistent with the Clery Act, and is further expanded upon in Section 6444.   
Sentence 11 is intende d to educate students that an institution shall not make them choose 
between their religion and participating in the process. For instance, an institution shall not tell 
an Orthodox Jewish student that the hearing will be held on Friday at 7:00 p.m. or tell a Muslim student that the only time the Title IX Coordinator can meet with them is just before sunset 
during Ramadan (when they have been fasting all day).  Additionally, institutions will not force 
students to undergo medical procedures that they say are forbidden by their religion. Institutions 
will work with participants to ensure they do not have to choose between participating in the 
process and practicing their religion.  
  
Response to Reports (Section 6444):  
  
1. Every institution shall ensure that reporting individuals are advised of their right to:  
  
a. Notify university police or campus security, local law enforcement, and/or state police;  
  
All reporting individuals have these rights. Institutions shall provide these rights consistent with the provisions of the  Clery  Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092 ( f)(8)(B)(iii)(III)(aa)- (cc) that require institutions 
to provide students with three options:  
                             
● “(aa) notify proper law enforcement authorities, including on- campus and local police;  
● (bb) be assisted by campus authorities in notifying law enforcement authorities if the 
victim so chooses; and 
● (cc) decline to notify such authorities.”  
  
15 Institutions that do not have an on campus security option and/or a local law enforcement option 
shall only include available options; providing a blank space for a resource that does not exist at the school may be confusing to a reader. New York State Pol ice have s tatewide jurisdiction and 
are always an option within the State of New York. The State Police have created  a special unit 
dedicated to college and university sexual and interpersonal violence prevention and response.  
  b. Have emergency access to  a Title IX Coordinator or other appropriate official trained in 
interviewing victims of sexual assault who shall be available upon the first instance of disclosure by a reporting individual to provide information regarding options to proceed, and, where applicable, the importance of preserving evidence and obtaining a sexual assault forensic examination as soon as possible, and detailing that the criminal justice process utilizes different 
standards of proof and evidence and that any questions about whethe r a specific incident 
violated the penal law should be addressed to law enforcement or to the district attorney. Such 
official shall also explain whether he or she is authorized to offer the reporting individual confidentiality or privacy, and shall inform  the reporting individual of other reporting options;  
  The definition  of Title IX Coordinator in this legislation includes the coordinator and his/her 
designee . Further, the legislation further provides that emergency access can be provided by a 
Title IX Coordinator or “other appropriate “official” instead of “institution official” since the 
person who may provide such service does not need to be an official of the institution and may 
instead be an official of an off campus resource .   The law requires  that institutions must, at all 
times , provide emergency access to a Title IX Coordinator (which includes the Coordinator’s 
designee) or other appropriate official trained in interviewing vic tims of sexual assault.  The law 
does not contemplate that the college or  university  must have a contact  person or office  on site 
that is available 24/7.  Nor does the law require that the emergency access must be provided at 
all times by an official or emp loyee of the institution.   The statute allows institutions to designate 
appropriate officials at off campus resources for emergency access (see Too lkit information 
below).  Institutions should designate the best person(s) and/or office(s) to provide the 
information and ensure that policies and procedures make it simple for reporting individuals to 
connect to the appropriate person.  
  Institutions may provide information about preserving evidence, sexual assault forensic 
examinations and the differences between the conduct and criminal justice processes either live 
or via a website. However, a n institution that complies by placing this information on a  website 
shall only be considered to be in compliance if the institution uses good faith to train appropriate officials who are likely to receive a report of sexual or interpersonal violence on the following 
items: the existence of the webs ite, how to use it to find information, how to access it when 
approached by a reporting individual, and whether that person is an official who can offer 
confidentiality or privacy. Further, the website should be easily accessible using a short URL (a rule of thumb for memorability of a URL is to have no more than two “.” or “/” in the name, for 
16 instance “response.campus.edu” or “campus.edu/safety”) or be accessible as a mobile phone 
application that is free and easily accessed by students. While each instit ution should determine 
for itself who qualifies as officials likely to receive a report, some examples include , but are not 
limited to:   
● Title IX Coordinator.  
● University Police or Campus Security.  
● Student Affairs professionals. 
● Resident Assistants and Hal l Directors.  
● Coaches, trainers and athletic staff.  
● Club and organization advisors. 
● Counseling professionals and advocates.  
● Individuals designated as Campus Security Authorities for Clery Act compliance purposes. 
● Individuals designated as Responsible Employ ees for Title IX compliance purposes.  
  To assist institutions in developing such resources, including access to a list of available s tate 
and community organizations that may serve as options for emergency access officials, the State University of New York  prepared a Toolkit to develop a website  similar to the  SUNY SAVR 
(Sexual Assault and Violence Response) Resource . 
  A team of attorneys from public and pr ivate colleges developed a resource to assist colleges in 
complying with the requirement of educating about the different standards  of proof and evidence .  
The resource may be accessed as a Word or PDF at this site:  
http://system.suny.edu/sexual -
violence -prevention- workgroup/College -and-Crim inal-Resource/ .  
 When the statute references “different standards of proof and evidence” it is speaking primarily to the difference between the criminal requirement of proof beyond a reasonable doubt compared 
to the  standard of preponderance of the evidence  commonly utilized in student conduct 
proceedings , as well as the stringent laws applied in criminal court regarding submission and 
admissibility of evidence as compared to the college conduct process which is not governed by 
formal rules of evidence.  
  c. Disclose confidentially the incident to institution representatives, who may offer confidentiality pursuant to applicable laws and can assist in obtaining services for reporting individuals;  
  d. Disclose confidentially th e incident and obtain services from the state or local government;  
  
17 e. Disclose the incident to institution representatives who can offer privacy or confidentiality, as 
appropriate, and can assist in obtaining resources for reporting individuals;  
  
f. File a report of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and/or stalking and the 
right to consult the Title IX Coordinator and other appropriate institution representatives for information and assistance. Reports shall be investigated in accordance with institution policy and a reporting individual’s identity shall remain private at all times if said reporting individual 
wishes to maintain privacy;  
  
g. Disclose, if the accused is an employee of the institution, the incident to the institution’s  
human resources authority or the right to request that a confidential or private employee assist 
in reporting to the appropriate human resources authority;  
  
The above paragraphs are a list of options a reporting individual has in reporting the violation. They are not mutua lly exclusive. A reporting individual may use any or none of the se options.  
  Institutions should only list resources  that are actually available to the institution’s students.  
  h. Receive assistance from appropriate institution representatives in initiating legal proceedings 
in family court  or civil court; and 
 
Institutions have flexibility in complying with this provision. Large institutions may have 
personnel on campus who can assist with understanding the initial requirements to bring a case in family or civil court, while other institutions may refer reporting individuals to legal aid or 
community resources  (institutions may access a list and/or map of legal aid resources in New 
York State by visiting http://www.suny.edu/violence -response/
, clicking on “Off Campus 
Resources” and then sorting for “Legal Resources”) . This provision does not require institutions 
to bring actions on behalf of reporting individuals, provide or pay for attorneys, or provide direct support. The provision merely requires that institutions serve as a resource to students in 
“initiating” these proceedings. That may include information sheets, links to appropriate resources or as sistance from personnel in the institution or outside personnel. 
i. Withdraw a complaint or involvement from the institution process at any time. 
 
A reporting individual may withdraw a complaint or report from the institution at any time, and should not be  penalized. The institution may, consistent with other provisions of this law as well 
as federal law, still have obligations to investigate and/or take actions. Pursuant to this law, 
reporting individuals may participate as much or as little as they wish.  
2. Every institution shall ensure that, at a minimum, at the first instance of disclosure by a 
reporting individual to an institution representative, the following information shall be presented 
18 to the reporting individual: “You have the right to make a re port to university police or campus 
security, local law enforcement, and/or state police or choose not to report; to report the 
incident to your institution; to be protected by the institution from retaliation for reporting an 
incident; and to receive assi stance and resources from your institution.”  
  
Institution representative include s employees likely to receive such a report , who may be student 
employees .  Institutions may not limit this coverage  to a single employee, but should act in good 
faith to provide the information to employees likely to receive such a report or otherwise comply as addressed in the guidance below.  
 While each institution should determine for itself who qualifies as officials likely to receive a 
report, some examples include , but are not limited to: 
  
● Title IX Coordinator.  
● University Police or Campus Security.  
● Student Affairs professionals. 
● Resident Assistants and Hall Directors.  
● Coaches, trainers and athletic staff.  
● Club and organization advisors. 
● Counseling professionals and advocates.  
● Individuals designated as Campus Security Authorities for Clery Act compliance 
purposes. 
● Individuals designated as Responsible Employees for Title IX compliance purposes.  
 
The important point in this paragraph is for employees to provide this in formation  to students at 
the first instance of disclosure.  
 
Employees  may be instructed to carry this  paragraph with them for easy access. Alternatively,  
institutions may allow employees to access this paragraph via a website , when needed, to then 
provide or read the information to the reporting individual. H owever , an institution that complies 
by placing this information on a website shall only be considered to be in compliance if the institution uses good faith to train appropriate officials who are likel y to receive a report of 
sexual or interpersonal violence on the following items: the existence of the website, how to use it to find this paragraph and other pertinent information on the website, and how to access the paragraph when approached by a report ing individual. Please refer to the guidance under S ection 
6444(1)(b) above for more information on how to comply by posting this information on a 
website.  
 
3. Every institution shall ensure that reporting individuals have information about resources, including intervention, mental health counseling, and medical services, which shall include 
19 information on whether such resources are available at no cost or for a fee. Every institution 
shall also provide information on sexually transmitted infections, sexual  assault forensic 
examinations, and resources available through the New York state office of victim services, 
established pursuant to section six hundred twenty -two of the executive law.  
  
Sample language that can serve as a fill -in-the-blank template for institutions can be found in the  
State University of New Yor k Sexual Violence Response Policy , which is consistent with this 
section of the law. The language is available for use by public and private institutions. Additional guidance for crime victims may be found at the Office of Victim Services website: https://ovs.ny.gov/
.  
  
4. Every institution shall ensure that individuals are provided the following protections and 
accommodations:  
  a. When the accused or respondent is a student, to have the institution issue a “no contact 
order” consistent with institution policies and procedures, whereby continued intentional 
contact with the reporting individual would be a violation of institution policy subject to additional conduct charges; if the accused or respondent and a repor ting individual observe 
each other in a public place, it shall be the responsibility of the accused or respondent to leave 
the area immediately and without directly contacting the reporting individual. Both the accused 
or respondent and the reporting indiv idual shall, upon request and consistent with institution 
policies and procedures, be afforded a prompt review, reasonable under the circumstances, of the need for and terms of a no contact order, including potential modification, and shall be allowed to s ubmit evidence in support of his or her request. Institutions may establish an 
appropriate schedule for the accused and respondents to access applicable institution buildings and property at a time when such buildings and property are not being accessed by  the reporting 
individual;  
  
No contact orders are institutional documents that do not have the legal effect of orders o f 
protection, which are obtained through a court. Although this is the generally accepted term, 
institutions may refer to such a document by another name , and the  provisions in the legislation 
would apply to such a document. 
  The law requires that institutions be clear that the responsibility to stay away falls upon the  
person subject to the no contact order  (“covered person” ), not the protected individual. A 
covered person may be a respondent or accused or a third party who is the subject of a no contact 
order. In certain cases, a reporting individual under this law may be a covered person under a no 
contact order. If the cove red person and protected person are in the same place accidentally, it is 
incumbent upon the covered person to remove themselves in a reasonable time and manner. They need not run or make a scene out of leaving, but they should leave the location. In 
20 excep tionally rare cases where a protected individual is actively seeking to be in the same place 
as the covered person, this does not mean that an institution must sanction the covered person or 
is prohibited from taking other reasonable action to address the situation , consistent with its 
policies and procedures. The definition of a public place is to be interpreted by institutions using reason and good faith. Some institutions may assist students in compliance by setting up a schedule of attendance in certain  locations such as academic buildings, libraries, athletics or 
fitness facilities and dining halls , but t here is no requirement that institutions develop such a 
schedule.  
  Both the accused or respondent and the reporting individual shall, upon request and consistent with institution policies and procedures, be afforded a prompt review, reasonable under the 
circumstances, of the need for and terms of a no contact order, including potential modification, 
and shall be allowed to submit evidence in support of his or her request.  As has been generally accepted practice in higher education, covered and protected individuals 
under no contact orders may request a review of the need for , and terms of , such orders by the 
institution and may submit information as to their reasoning for requesting a change. Such 
review shall be prompt, but promptness is determined by the institution in view of the circumstances of the case, personnel availability, complex ity of the request, and 
evidence/information submitted favoring or arguing against a modification. There is no requirement in this provision for a full, in person hearing to review the order.  
  
b. To be assisted by the institution’s police or security forces, if applicable, or other officials in obtaining an order of protection or, if outside of New York state, an equivalent protective or 
restraining order;  
  
This section reflects the current state of the law and is intended for completeness and student  
education. Institutions with sworn law enforcement c ould directly assist in obtaining such an 
order, or do so in concert with municipal law enforcement, as the situation merits.   Section 2265 of the Violence Against Women Act  requires that each state give full faith and 
credit to orders of protection issued by other states, Indian Tribes, and territories . 
  18 U.S.C. 2265(a ): Full Faith and Credit-  
Any protection order issued that is consistent with subsection (b) of this section by the court of one State, Indian tribe, or territory (the issuing State, Indian tribe, or territory) 
shall be accorded full faith and credit by th e court of another State, Indian tribe, or 
territory (the enforcing State, Indian tribe, or territory) and enforced by the court and law 
enforcement personnel of the other State, Indian tribal government or Territory as if it were the order of the enforcin g State or tribe.  
21  
This means that institutions shall treat the process and award of an out -of-state court 
document equivalent to a New York State Order of Protection. 
  
c. To receive a copy of the order of protection or equivalent when received by an institution and have an opportunity to meet or speak with an institution representative, or other appropriate individual, who can explain the order and answer questions about it, including information from 
the order about the accused’s responsibility to st ay away from the protected person or persons;  
  
The intention of this provision is to assist both covered and protected students with understanding a document that may appear complicated or otherwise difficult to understand. If, 
due to some circumstance, t he reporting individual or respondent does not have a copy of the 
order, they can receive that copy from an institution representative if the institution has a copy.  
  
This requirement may be met by an institution representative or other appropriate offici al. This 
means that an institution that lacks on campus resources to assist in this matter may work with a local resource or a neighboring institution where such a resource is available. Local resources may include law enforcement, legal aid organizations,  rape crisis centers, and domestic violence 
prevention organizations (this is not a comprehensive list). Institutions may access a list and/or 
map of s tate and local resources in New York State by visiting 
http://www.suny.edu/violence -
response/  and clicking on “Off Campus Resources” or “View NYS Resources”) . 
 The law requires that institutions be clear that the responsibility to stay away falls upon the covered person, not the protected individual. In the exceptionally rare case that a protected 
individual is actively seeking to be in the same place as the covered person, this does not mean that an institution must sanction the covered person or is prohibited from taking reasonable action  to address the situation , consistent with its policies and procedures.  
  
d. To an explanation of the consequences for violating these orders, including but not limited to 
arrest, additional conduct charges, and interim suspension;  
  Institutions may wish to call on available law enforcement, whether on -campus or off, to assist in 
developing language on specific consequences. Note that either a covered or protected person may request assistance and an explanation.   e. To receive assistance from university police or campus security in effecting an arrest when an 
individual violates an order of protection or, if university police or campus security does not 
possess arresting powers, then to call on and assist local law enforcement in effecting an arrest for violating such an order, provided that nothing in this article shall limit current law enforcement jurisdiction and procedures;  
22   
As with many provisions of the law, this s ection does not change the current requirements  for 
arrests for violations of such orders, but i nstead the law  is aimed at  educating students about their 
rights under O rders of P rotection. 
 Each institution should post information about personnel, likely in University Police, Campus Safety , or Student Affairs, who can assist a student in understanding an Order of Protection, and 
a clear method for contacting that office. To comply with the Clery Act requirement of even -
handedness, such explanations should be available both to students who a re protected by Orders 
of Protection and to those who are subject to Orders of Protection.  
 
The language about not limiting current law enforcement jurisdiction is intended to make clear 
that 129- B does not change current law enforcement jurisdiction.   
 f. When the accused or respondent is a student determined to present a continuing threat to the 
health and safety of the community, to subject the accused or respondent to interim suspension 
pending the outcome of a judicial or conduct process consistent w ith this article and the 
institution’s policies and procedures. Both the accused or respondent and the reporting individual shall, upon request and consistent with the institution’s policies and procedures, be 
afforded a prompt review, reasonable under the  circumstances, of the need for and terms of an 
interim suspension, including potential modification, and shall be allowed to submit evidence in 
support of his or her request;  
  Institutions should use good faith and best practices to determine when a pers on presents a 
continuing threat to the health and safety of the community. Interim suspensions should be reasonable and tailored to balance the ability  of the accused/respondent to complete their studies 
with the safety of both the reporting individual and/or the institution community at large. This section largely reflects longstanding  best practices  of public and private institutions.  
  As has been the generally accepted practice in higher education, covered individuals under 
suspension may request a revi ew of the need for or terms of such orders by the institution and 
may submit information as to their reasoning for requesting a change. Institutions must have a 
procedure by which the accused/respondent or reporting individual can request a review. The 
review must be prompt. Promptness is determined by the institution in view of the circumstances 
of the case, personnel availability, complexity of the request, and evidence/information submitted favoring or arguing against a modification of suspension. This p rovision does not 
specify that a hearing must be held to determine the request to modify the order, but rather the institution must conduct some review, and it may be short of a hearing. To be consistent with federal law and guidance and the need for equal  opportunity, institutions should notify the other 
party of the request for modification and the decision of whether to modify or not. 
23 g. When the accused is not a student but is a member of the institution’s community and presents 
a continuing threat to t he health and safety of the community, to subject the accused to interim 
measures in accordance with applicable collective bargaining agreements, employee handbooks, 
and rules and policies of the institution;  
  
This provision is a parallel to the provision above that applies to non- student members of an 
institution community. Consistent with the law collective bargaining agreements, and institution 
policy, institutions may remove a non- student from the institution community when the person is 
accused of a v iolation and presents a danger. Nothing in the law changes collective bargaining 
agreements or requires changes to other policies.  
 Individuals who are neither students, nor employees, but are members of the institution 
community who present a continuing t hreat, as determined by the institution, would also be 
subject to interim measures, consistent with institution policy. An example is a persona non grata letter notifying an individual that they are not allowed on institution property and entering 
property  may subject them to arrest or trespassing charges (consistent with applicable law, 
institution al policy, and due process requirements, where applicable).  
 
h. To obtain reasonable and available interim measures and accommodations that effect a 
change in ac ademic, housing, employment, transportation or other applicable arrangements in 
order to help ensure safety, prevent retaliation and avoid an ongoing hostile environment, 
consistent with the institution’s policies and procedures. Both the accused or respondent and the 
reporting individual shall, upon request and consistent with the institution’s policies and procedures, be afforded a prompt review, reasonable under the circumstances, of the need for 
and terms of any such interim measure and accommodation that directly affects him or her, and 
shall be allowed to submit evidence in support of his or her request.   This provision  should be interpreted in a manner consistent with federal law including but not 
limited to the Clery Act, and Office for Civil Rights interpretations of Title IX and the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. Institutions must, under those and this law, provide reasonable accommodations. Reasonability is to be determined on a case -by-case basis and using the 
standards established in law and by the institution. Not all accommodations must be granted. 
Institutions should analyze each request to determine if it could improve safety, prevent 
retaliation, and/or avoid an ongoing hostile environment, and the law is clear that such analysis should be consistent with institutional policy and procedure.  
  
In the event that an accommodation or interim measure (including but not limited to campus or 
residence hall suspension) granted to or against one party impacts another party (parties in this case bei ng the reporting individual[s] and accused or respondent[s]), both the directly impacted 
party and the secondarily impacted party may request a review of the terms or totality of the 
24 accommodation and/or measure by the institution and may submit informatio n as to their 
reasoning for requesting a change. Such review shall be prompt, but promptness is determined by 
the institution in view of the circumstances of the case, personnel availability, complexity of the 
request, and evidence/information submitted fa voring or arguing against a modification. There is 
no requirement in this provision for a full, in person hearing on the request to modify the order.  
  
5. Every institution shall ensure that every student be afforded the following rights:  
  In general, the se rights apply to all students. Some rights by their nature may be more applicable 
to reporting individuals or accused/respondents.   
a. The right to request that student conduct charges be filed against the accused in proceedings 
governed by this article  and the procedures established by the institution’s rules. 
  The law gives students the right to request  that charges be brought but leaves the decision of 
whether to actually file charges with the institution. Institutions can initiate charges or choose not to initiate them when evidence does or does not merit doing so, in conformity with this law and the institution’s code of conduct and other institution policies. The statutory word “ charges ” 
should be read to cover other equivalent  terms , including those used to reference information 
brought through the investigative process, even if a school does not use the specific term 
“charg e” within their process.  
  
b. The right to a process in all student judicial or conduct cases, where a student is accused of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual activity that may otherwise 
violate the institution’s code of conduct, that includes, at a minimum: (i) notice to a respondent 
describing the date, time, location and factual allegations concerning the violation, a reference to the specific code of conduct provisions alleged to have been violated, and possible sanctions; (ii) an opportunity to offer evidence during an investigation, and to present evidence and 
testimony at a hearing, where appropriate, and have access to a full and fair record of any such 
hearing, which shall be preserved and maintained for at leas t five years from such a hearing and 
may include a transcript, recording or other appropriate record; and (iii) access to at least one level of appeal of a determination before a panel, which may include one or more students, that 
is fair and impartial and does not include individuals with a conflict of interest. In order to 
effectuate an appeal, a respondent and reporting individual in such cases shall receive written 
notice of the findings of fact, the decision and the sanction, if any, as well as the rat ionale for the 
decision and sanction. In such cases, any rights provided to a reporting individual must be 
similarly provided to a respondent and any rights provided to a respondent must be similarly 
provided to a reporting individual.   
25 This s ection should not be read to extend to private colleges the Constitutional due process 
requirements that apply to public colleges. It establishes minimum requirements for cases of 
sexual and interpersonal violence  covered by 129 -B, but institutions may offer more  rights and 
requirements and may offer such rights and requirements for other violations that are outside the 
scope of this law.   Consistent with the regulations implementing the Clery Act,  34 C.F.R. §668.46(k)(2)(v) , 
institutions should simultaneously pr ovide both reporting individuals and respondents with 
notice or notices that include the date, time, location and factual allegations that have been reported, as well as a reference to the specific code provisions reported to have been violated and their a ssociated sanctions. This list should be specific enough to allow a reasonable person to 
present a defense, pursuant to institutional policy, but need not be so long and detailed that it negatively impacts the student conduct process. The section is consis tent with the notice 
requirements of the Clery  Act. Nothing in the paragraph prohibits an institution from holding 
students accountable for violations that are not referenced in the initial charge letter but are 
learned about from evidence, testimony, or a dmission at a hearing or during the investigatory 
process, consistent with institution policies and due process, where applicable. 
  Students should receive the notice required by this paragraph , however , and, consistent with the 
Clery  Act, there is no requirement that all provisions of notice be provided within the same 
notification, or in the first communication to the student. An institution may provide the information required in this paragraph via a number of separate communication s, however each 
communication must be provided to the reporting individual and respondent simultaneously. Institutions may choose to provide limited information initially for policy reasons, and then 
supplement that information with additional notice (s) as  information becomes available or as the 
institution is able to gauge other factors, such as the respondent’s availability and understanding 
of the charges. The law does not prescribe a medium for providing notice and institutions may use all or some combi nation of written notice, electronic notice, or oral notice, provided that if an 
institution uses oral notice, it shall document the date, time, and attendees at any meeting at which oral notice is provided and shall obtain from the student an acknowledgme nt that such 
notice was provided.  
 
The “reference to the specific code violation” means that institutions may provide a link or 
referral to a location in the code that includes relevant page numbers or section numbers, and need not copy and paste the appli cable paragraphs (which may be lengthy) into the charging 
letter or document. Institutions may only make such a reference if their code of conduct is 
available publicly or on the i nternet. Recall that the Clery Act requires that institutions publish a 
list of the available sanctions for violations of institution policy related to sexual assault, 
domestic violence, dating violence and stalking (institutions must, per the regulations, publish all possible sanctions and not just a range of sanctions). Therefor e the requirement in 129- B simply 
26 mandates a reference to these sanction lists which must already be created pursuant to federal 
law. 
  
Reporting individuals and respondents should be afforded the opportunity to offer evidence 
during the process. Evidence is not defined in the law and should be defined reasonably by an institution. Institutions are not required by this law to offer hearings, and may use alternative methods, such as the investigatory model, as allowed under the institution’s policies and 
applicable law. The paragraph does not require that evidence be offered during a hearing or that 
evidence be offered in the presence of other parties or witnesses.  
  
The law does not specify the type of record or manner of access to the record that must be 
maintained. It can be a recording , notes, a transcript or any other reasonable type of record. 
There is no requirement in the law that an institution prepare a transcript on demand. Further, the 
legislation only requires “access” to the record.  This means that for most institutions, they are 
required to continue their practice of giving participants reasonable access during business hours 
and are specifically not required to provide participants with copies of the record. Institutions 
may choose  to allow licensed court reporters to make transcripts of a hearing or proceeding, at 
the expense of the participant in the hearing that requests such a transcript, as allowed by the institution’s code of conduct. Note that if one participant creates such a recording, the fair 
treatment provision of the law may require the institution to provide that transcript to the other participant(s) upon request or as a matter of course, as determined by institution policy. Recordings must be maintained for at least f ive years although institutions may choose to retain 
them for longer.   
Appeals must be considered by a panel —not one person. The panel may include one or more 
students, but does not have to include students. The law does not specify whether the decision of 
the panel must be unanimous or may be a majority vote of panelists, and that decision is left to the institution. Further, the law does not state who must, may, or may not be a member of the 
panel. Individuals who made the initial decision should not be a part of the panel considering an 
appeal.  
  The law is to be read as consistent with the Clery Act, Title IX, and other applicable laws; it 
requires equal access to appeals and requires that the institution provide the parties with simultaneous notice about the outcome. The o utcome includes the underlying decision, sanction, 
and rationales for decision and sanction. Also, institutions must provide notice  to the respondent 
and the reporting individual of  both the initial outcome and any change in the outcom e due to 
appeal. If there is no appeal, institutions must provide notice to the parties when the outcome becomes final because the time for an appeal has expired.  
  
27 c. Throughout proceedings involving such an accusation of sexual assault, domestic violence , 
dating violence, stalking, or sexual activity that may otherwise violate the institution’s code of 
conduct, the right:  
  In general, these rights apply to all students. Some rights by their nature may be more applicable to reporting individuals or accuse d/respondents. 
  
i. For the respondent, accused, and reporting individual to be accompanied by an advisor of 
choice who may assist and advise a reporting individual, accused, or respondent throughout the judicial or conduct process including during all mee tings and hearings related to such process. 
Rules for participation of such advisor shall be established in the code of conduct. 
  
This paragraph parallels the requirements of the Clery Act and requires that institutions allow 
students to choose an advisor  of choice to accompany the student to any hearing or meeting 
related to the conduct process.  Institutions have the discretion to allow more than one advisor, 
although the law requires that they are permitted at least one. Institutions may , but are not 
required to, offer a particular advisor at the cost of the school or to pay for an advisor.  The 
advisor is truly of choice; it may be a faculty member, family member, attorney or otherwise. Unless an institution makes an affirmative decision as a matter of policy to reimburse the student 
for engaging an advisor, any costs associated with the advisor would be at  the expense of the 
student. An institution may provide a list or panel of employees available to offer advice, but 
may not limit a stu dent to members of such a list or panel.  
  The requirement is that a student be allowed to have such an advisor accompany them. There is 
no provision of the law that requires an institution to allow such an advisor to participate  in the 
meetings  or hearing s, such as making opening or closing statements or questioning witnesses. 
While an institution may allow such participation, it may also restrict such advisors from 
speaking  at the meeting or hearing . Institutions must allow advisors to reasonably provide 
assistance and advice to their student principal during the course of such a proceeding, which may be accomplished by allowing for passing of notes, non- verbal cues, or a reasonable number 
of breaks or recesses. Institutions are not required to allow for a ttempts to go around these 
provisions, such as by having attorneys write every word that their student principal reads 
verbatim, while waiting for the attorney to then finish the next sentence of the script. Institutions 
may place reasonable restrictions o n such actions. Advisors who violate institution policies may 
be removed from a hearing or meeting. Institutions are not required by this law to recess the hearing or allow the student to replace the banned advisor with a new advisor. Nothing in the law 
requires an institution to limit its capacity to conduct its judicial or conduct process due to 
scheduling or other delays (whether genuine or tactical) by an advisor of choice. Institutions may 
place reasonable restrictions on participation of advisors, suc h as by having a policy allowing 
any party to request a five business day delay to allow for the scheduling conflicts of their 
28 advisor of choice, and institutions are not required to comply with the busy schedule of advisors 
of choice who may declare thems elves unavailable for days, weeks or months. This provision is 
to be read in concert with provisions requiring a timely process (such as the Office for Civil 
Rights Title IX guidance that requires a process lasting approximately 60 days).  
 
ii. To a prompt response to any complaint and to have the complaint investigated and adjudicated in an impartial, timely, and thorough manner by individuals who receive annual 
training in conducting investigations of sexual violence, the effects of trauma, impartiality, t he 
rights of the respondent, including the right to a presumption that the respondent is “not 
responsible” until a finding of responsibility is made pursuant to the provisions of this article and the institution’s policies and procedures, and other issues including, but not limited to 
domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or sexual assault.  
 
Prompt is not defined in the law and is to be determined on a case -by-case basis, consistent with 
institution policy and procedures. Institutions should use good faith to conduct investigations and 
proceedings in a prompt but meaningful way. Consistent wit h the requirements of the Clery  Act, 
individuals who conduct investigations, hearing and appeals should have annual training in 
conducting these investigations, the impact of trauma on reporting such violations, the importance of impartiality in these proc eedings, and the rights of the respondent (rights of 
reporting individuals are established here and elsewhere in the law). The provisions of this subparagraph regarding training of those conducting investigations and adjudications  are 
consistent with  the r equirements of the Clery  Act, and are included here for education purposes.  
  A key provision in this subparagraph is a presumption that one should not be determined in 
advance to have violated a rule and then required to “prove a negative.” To borrow a phrase from 
the criminal justice process, one is “innocent until proven guilty.” This law , consistent with that 
principle, emphasizes that a respondent is presumed to be “not responsible” until the institution has established  evidence, testimony or informa tion that would allow the decision maker to find 
the respondent responsible pursuant to the institution code of conduct and this law. Note that the burden is on the institution to develop these facts, not on the reporting individual, who may participate at  the level to which he or she is comfortable. Through the process, appropriate 
officials may listen to witnesses and review available evidence to make a determination, to the 
best of their ability, whether it is more likely than not that a policy violation  occurred.  For 
example, an institution cannot begin a process with the presumption that a respondent engaged in 
sex without consent, and then begin to gather evidence wherein the respondent would have to prove there was consent. The institution should gather evidence to determine whether a violation 
occurred and the burden of such a finding is on the institution.  
 
Institutions should read this provision consistent with a requirement in this same section to have training in, among other things, trauma -inform ed interviewing and investigations, which lead 
29 with an initial obligation to treat a reporting individual’s allegations with respect and seriousness. 
Institutions are not conducting criminal trials, but are expected to follow their policies and procedures as well as this and other laws to determine the facts, including whether an institution 
policy was violated, and then determine whether sanctions or other actions are necessary.  
  
iii. To an investigation and process that is fair, impartial and provides a meaningful opportunity to be heard, and that is not conducted by individuals with a conflict of interest. 
  
A conflict of interest is to be interpreted consistent with the provisions in the Clery Act and 
would cover an investigator or adjudicator who is a family member or close friend or advisor of a party, or who has similar conflicts. Institutions need not entertain claims of conflict of interest 
that merely stem from the involvement of an investigator or adjudicator who is the same gender, 
race, etc. of a party.  
  iv. To have the institution’s judicial or conduct process run concurrently with a criminal justice 
investigation and proceeding, except for temporary delays as requested by external municipal 
entities while law enforcement gathers evidence. Temporary delays should not last more than ten days except when law enforcement specifically requests and justifies a longer delay.  
  
Institutions maintain a responsibility under this law and federal law to investigate and take action 
in cases of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. This obligation is completely separate from a law enforcement duty to investigate whether a person within their 
jurisdiction violated applicable la w and whether or not such a violation merits charges or 
prosecution. The Clery  Act requires that institutions offer reporting individuals the opportunity 
to report to the college, law enforcement, or not at all. The college ’s sexual assault 
policy/procedur es and criminal justice process are separate and distinct processes and one does 
not overcome the other.  
This independence requires that institutions not be barred from conducting their  disciplinary 
process due to the proceedings of the criminal justice s ystem, except when temporary delays are 
requested by law enforcement  with proper jurisdiction. Such delays should not be longer than 10 
days except where specifically requested and justified by law enforcement. The determination of whether such delays are justified is in the discretion of the institution.  
  
An example of a delay would occur when law enforcement seeks to elicit a confession using a wiretap of a witness or the reporting individual during one or more conversations with the 
accused. If law enforcement informs the institution that notifying the accused of an investigation 
or that they will become a respondent in a student conduct process may hamper their ability to 
obtain useful information from a wiretap, an institution may view this as justification for a temporary delay. Still, such a delay should only be temporary and not open- ended.  
30  
Generalized delays due to scheduling, workload, priority of investigation compared to other open cases, are insufficient to meet the requirements of this law  that institutions independently 
investigate and act when receiving these reports, without being impacted in that responsibility by the parallel (but different) requirements and/or actions of law enforcement.  
 The i nstitution should determine, consistent w ith its policies and using good faith, who the 
appropriate institution official is to field requests for a delay, however, the individual assigned should be at a sufficiently high level of authority tasked with important policy decisions. In cases that imp act Title IX, the Title IX Coordinator should, if not the decision maker, at a minimum be 
involved in the decision of whether to delay the institution process. 
  
v. To review and present available evidence in the case file, or otherwise in the possession or control of the institution, and relevant to the conduct case, consistent with institution policies and procedures. 
  
This provision ensures that respondents and reporting individuals will have reasonable access to evidence in the case file that may be us ed in a hearing or investigation and/or may exonerate or 
show responsibility in the case, regardless of whether that evidence is held in a file denoted “case 
file” or held in a parallel file maintained by the institution, to the extent that is applicable. 
Institutions may still place reasonable restrictions on access to evidence, such as time, place and manner restrictions, heightened restriction for sensitive information that is not directly relevant 
to the questions raised in the investigation or hearing, and a limit on students or their advisors of choice engaging in “fishing expeditions” of all records maintained by a college that in any way 
cover any of the parties. This provision is not a generalized discovery mandate . It allows access 
to evidence dire ctly relevant to the specific case, as reasonably determined by the institution, but 
the law does not require any type of pre -hearing discovery. The right in the law is to review and 
present evidence. There is no requirement that parties or their advisors of choice be provided with a copy of the evidence in question. 
  
vi. To exclude their own prior sexual history with persons other than the other party in the judicial or conduct process or their own mental health diagnosis and/or treatment from 
admittance in the institution disciplinary stage that determines responsibility. Past findings of 
domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault may be admissible in the disciplinary stage that determines sanction.   
Consistent with due process and/or fundamental fairness (as applicable), t his is a right that 
belongs to the individual and applies equally to respondents and reporting individuals. While a 
party participating in a conduct proceeding may, if allowed under the policies and procedures of the institution, present evidence of their own past sexual history  with persons other than the other 
31 party  and/or evidence of mental health diagnosis and treatment (or have the institution present 
such evidence on their behalf) , they may likewise prohibit the other party from seeking to 
present testimony or other evidence of the same.  
 
The limit does not cover evidence of prior sexual history with the other party in the judicial or conduct action that is relevant to a charge or defense. For instance, if student Respondent A wants to testify about why A believed that Reporting Individual B was affirmatively consenting 
to sexual activity, A may testify about past sexual acts between B and A, indicia of consent in 
those acts (such as certain words or actions  said or used in the past between participants to 
indicate consent which were or were not said or used in this particular sexual contact), and why A believed that consent was also given in the case under consideration. However, A may not 
introduce directly  or seek to have Witness C testify about a past sexual act between Reporting 
Individual B and Witness C as evidence of same. Reporting Individual B may prohibit such 
testimony.  
 
Further, if a r eporting i ndividual engaged in sexual activity with more than one partner in a short 
time period (as reasonably determined by the i nstitution) and the institution alleges that the 
reporting i ndividual sustained injuries during non -consensual sexual activity with the r espondent, 
the fact of consensual or non- consensual  sexual activity with the unrelated individual may be 
admitted for the limited purpose of addressing how injuries were sustained .  Such evidence  may 
not be used to show a pattern of engaging in sexual activity by the r eporting i ndividual or to 
allege that if the r eporting i ndividual consented to activity with the unrelated individual, ipso 
facto she or he was consenting to sexual activity with r espondent.  
  The same concepts apply to past mental health diagnosis or treatment and cover both respondents 
and reporting individuals. A student may testify or offer evidence on their own past mental health diagnosis or treatment but may limit the other party from offering such evidence.  
  
Evidence of past findings of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault  may 
be admitted but only in the penalty phase of the proceeding. Past findings are not relevant to 
answering the question of whether there was a violation in this specific instance, and could be found to be prejudicial and to inappropriat ely shift the burden of proof from the institution to the 
respondent (See Section 6444(5)(c)(ii) regarding burden of proof requirements). If respondent is found responsible in that part of the proceeding, the  subparagraph allows for admittance of 
evidence about the respondent’s past findings of criminal or conduct violations in these areas to 
assist a decision -maker in determining an appropriate sanction. Past findings are  to be interpreted 
by the institution using good faith and may be limited to past findings made by the institution or may include past findings made by other institutions, the criminal or civil court system, etc.  
  
32 vii. To receive written or electronic notice, provided in advance pursuant to the college or 
university policy and reasonable under the circumstances, of any meeting they are required to or are eligible to attend, of the specific rule, rules or laws alleged to have been violated and in what 
manner, and the sanction or sanctions that may be imposed on the respondent based upon the 
outcome of the judicial or conduct process, at which time the designated hearing or investigatory officer or panel shall provide a written statement detailing the factual findings supporting the determination and the rationale for the sanction imposed.  
  This should be read in a manner consistent with the requirements of the regulations 
implementing the Clery Act , 34 C.F.R. §668.46(k). All requirements are subject to good faith 
application and to an institution’s policies. The requirement to provide notice of meetings to 
which a person is required or eligible to attend is specific to that specific person and notice need 
not be provided t o all parties unless that  party is required or eligible to attend this  meeting. For 
instance, in the case of an accusation of stalking, the institution need not notify the accused of a meeting for which the reporting individual is required or eligible to a ttend unless the accused is 
also required or eligible to attend that specific meeting  
 viii. To make an impact statement during the point of the proceeding where the decision maker is deliberating on appropriate sanctions. 
This should be read in a manner c onsistent with the requirement s of the Clery Act . Institutions 
may use different terms to describe the impact statement, and this provision would apply 
regardless of chosen term. Institutions may place reasonable restrictions on provision of such a 
stateme nt, such as length. 
  
ix. To simultaneous (among the parties) written or electronic notification of the outcome of a 
judicial or conduct process, including the sanction or sanctions.   This should be read in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Clery Act, 20 U.S.C 
§1092(f)(8)(iv)(III) (a) and 34 C.F.R. §668.46(k)(2)(v) . There is no requirement in law that notice 
be provided using paper mail. Institutions may determine the best way of providing such notice 
in a manner reasonably calculated to be informative and simultaneous (in some cases, paper mail 
may be the best option). Oral notice does not meet the requirements of this s ection.  
  x. To be informed of the sanction or sanctions that may be  imposed on the r espondent based 
upon the outcome of the judicial or conduct process and the rationale for the actual sanction imposed. 
  
This provision should be read in a manner consistent with the r equirements of the Clery Act  
regulations , 34 C.F.R. §668.46(k). The Clery  Act requires that institutions publish a list of the 
available sanctions for violations of institution policy related to sexual assault, domestic 
33 violence, dating violence and stalking (institutions must, per the regulations, publish all possible 
sanctions and not just a range of sanctions). Therefore the requirement in the law simply 
mandates providing information about these sanction lists which must be created pursuant to 
federal law.  
  
xi. To choose whether to disclose or discuss the outcome of a conduct or judicial process.   
Institutions may not require that students sign a non- disclosure agreement prior to learning the 
results of a conduct process in which they participated as a reporting individual or respondent. 
This is consistent with the Family Educational  Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)  (see page 14 of 
the April 2011 Office for Civil Rights “ Dear Colleague Letter ,” 
http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague -201104.pdf
.  This applies to 
respondents and reporting individuals. Respondents and reporting individuals are n ot themselves 
barred by FERPA from sharing this information. Note, however, that this does not allow students to unreasonably share private information in a manner intended to harm or embarrass another 
individual, or in a manner that would recklessly do so regardless of intention. Such sharing may 
be retaliation which can result in separate charges under the code of conduct.  
  xii. To have all information obtained during the course of the conduct or judicial process be 
protected from public release until the appeals panel makes a final determination unless 
otherwise required by law.   This section is consistent with the Family Education al Rights and Pri vacy Act (FERPA).  
Institutions  may not share the information obtained during the course of the disciplinary  process 
until final determination , unless compelled to do so, such as by receipt of a lawfully issued 
subpoena. Institutions may still share information about the proceeding with “school officials” with a “legitimate educational interest” cons istent with FERPA. More information on the 
requirements of the various federal laws in this area can be found in the chart “Notifications 
Following Student Conduct Hearings .” 
  
6. For crimes of violence, including, but not limited to sexual violence, defined as crimes that meet the reporting requirements pursuant to the federal Clery Act established in 20 U.S.C. 
1092(f)(1)(F)(i)(I) -(VIII), i nstitutions shall make a notation on the transcript of students found 
responsible after a conduct process that they were “suspended after a finding of responsibility 
for a code of conduct violation” or “expelled after a finding of responsibility for a code  of 
conduct violation.” For the respondent who withdraws from the institution while such conduct 
charges are pending, and declines to complete the disciplinary process, institutions shall make a 
notation on the transcript of such students that they “withdr ew with conduct charges pending.” 
Each institution shall publish a policy on transcript notations and appeals seeking removal of a 
transcript notation for a suspension, provided that such notation shall not be removed prior to 
34 one year after conclusion of the suspension, while notations for expulsion shall not be removed. 
If a finding of responsibility is vacated for any reason, any such transcript notation shall be removed.  
  This provision requires all institutions to place notations on transcripts of students when two factors are met:  
  
● The student is found responsible, after a process (or takes responsibility) for a code of conduct violation that is equivalent to the  definitions for Clery Act Part I Primary Crimes; 
and 
● The student is expelled, suspended, and/or withdraws with conduct charges pending.  
 Institutions may (but are not required to) place notations on transcripts for other violations, but must at a minimum place notations when the two factors above are met.  
  
The specific language of the transcript notation is established in  Education Law §6444(6) . The 
required notation is general to a violation of the code of conduct and does not list the specific 
violations for which a student is found responsible. Notations must appear on the actual transcript, and may not be issued on a separate, detachable paper.  
 Education Law §6444(6) uses the definitions of the Clery Act solely for the purpose of identifying  relevant code  of conduct violations that  must be noted on a student’s transcript . 
Violations d o not have to be Clery Act  reportable in order for a transcript notation to be issued. 
Section 6440(6) states that the law “shall apply regardless of whether the violation occurs on 
campus, off campus, or while studying abroad” so actual Clery Act reportab ility of an incident is 
not relevant to the question of whether a transcript notation of a violation must be utilized. All 
students who take responsibility or are found responsible after a code of conduct process for a code  of conduct violation whose definition is equivalent to  a Clery Part I Primary Crime, or who 
withdraw with conduct charges pending , must have such a notation on their transcript regardless 
of where or when the violation occurred.  
  Violations equivalent to c rimes of violence, as defi ned in the Clery Act (as updated by the 
Violence Against Women Act Final Regulations)  Part I crimes , as set forth in 34 C.F.R. 
§668.46(c) , that require a transcript notation under §6444(6) are: murder; manslaughter; rape, 
fondling, incest and statutory rape; robbery; aggravated assault; burglary; motor vehicle theft; and arson. Institutions may, but are not required to, include transcript notations for additional 
violations. The relevant definitions defined in accordance with the Federal Bure au of 
Investiga tion’s Uniform Crime Reporting and set forth as Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 668, 
the Final Regulations to implement the Violence Against Women Act Amendments to the Clery 
Act in the Federal Register, Vol. 79, No. 202, October 20, 2014 at pages 62,789- 62,790 are:   
35   
● Criminal Homicide —Manslaughter by Negligence: The killing of another person 
through gross negligence. 
● Criminal Homicide —Murder and Nonnegligent  Manslaughter: The willful 
(nonnegligent) killing of one human being by another.  
● Rape: The penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or 
object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of t he 
victim.  
● Fondling : The touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of 
sexual gratification, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her 
temporary or permanent mental incapacity.  
● Incest: Sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the 
degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.  
● Statutory Rape:  Sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statut ory age of 
consent. 
● Robbery: The taking or attempting to take anything of value from the care, custody, or control of a person or persons by force or threat of force or violence and/or by putting the victim in fear.  
● Aggravated Assault: An unlawful attack by one person upon another for the purpose of inflicting severe or aggravated bodily injury. This type of assault usually is accompanied by the use of a weapon or by means likely to produce death or great bodily harm. (It is 
not necessary that injury resul t from an aggravated assault when a gun, knife, or other 
weapon is used which could and probably would result in serious personal injury if the 
crime were successfully completed.)  
● Burglary: The unlawful entry of a structure to commit a felony or a theft. F or reporting 
purposes this definition includes: unlawful entry with intent to commit a larceny or 
felony; breaking and entering with intent to commit a larceny; housebreaking; 
safecracking; and all attempts to commit any of the aforementioned.  
● Motor Vehicl e Theft: The theft or attempted theft of a motor vehicle.  
● Arson: Any willful or malicious burning or attempt to burn, with or without intent to 
defraud, a dwelling house, public building, motor vehicle or aircraft, personal property of 
another, etc.  
  
Note  that these definitions are not completely consistent with New York State Penal Law.  
The law does not forbid institutions from admitting a transfer student with a transcript notation, 
nor does it forbid employers from employing a person with a transcript notation. In general, 
colleges can develop policies that govern how admissions staff will weigh a notation and whether or if they will require additional information from the applicant. Additionally, licensure organizations may develop policies that allow t hem to request additional information when an 
36 applicant presents a transcript with a notation, but the law does not mandate such policies, nor 
does it forbid licenses for individuals with a transcript notation.  
If a court of competent jurisdiction vacates  a finding of responsibility for a violation of college 
policy, the legislation requires that vacating an underlying finding also vacates the transcript 
notation memorializing that finding. This provision applies to vacating of the finding by an external entity, and is separate from the policy on transcript notations and appeals in this s ection 
that governs the process internal to the institution for removing or modifying a notation.   Institutions may, but are not required to, establish a policy for appeal ing a notation of 
suspension, including standards for lifting a notation and who such an appeal should be 
addressed to, provided that such notation may not be lifted until one year after the suspension 
ends. A notation for expulsion may not be removed via an appeal to the institution . 
  7. Institutions that lack appropriate on- campus resources or services shall, to the extent 
practicable, enter into memoranda of understanding, agreements or collaborative partnerships with existing community -based organizati ons, including rape -crisis centers and domestic 
violence shelters and assistance organizations, to refer students for assistance or make services available to students, including counseling, health, mental health, victim advocacy, and legal 
assistance, whi ch may also include resources and services for the respondent. 
  
This provision encourages such memoranda of understanding “to the extent practicable” and 
does not require such an agreement or demand any specific provisions be in such an agreement.  
 
The State University of New York, Department of Health, and New York State Coalition Against 
Sexual Assault develop ed a model agreement that can be implemented by private an d public 
colleges and their community partners .  
 
Nothing in this law requires or obligates institutions to pay a community organization or provider 
a fee or other consideration in exchange for signing a memorandum of understanding.  
  8. Institutions shall , to the extent practicable, ensure that students have access to a sexual 
assault forensic examination by employing the use of a sexual assault nurse examiner in their campus health center or entering into memoranda of understanding or agreements with at l east 
one local health care facility to provide such a service.  
  
Local health care facilities that provide sexual assault nurse examination services are required by 
law (including the Violence Against Women Act, codified at 42 U.S.C.A. § 3796gg -4; and N.Y. 
Exec. L. § 631(13) ) to provide these examinations to college students and are barred from 
charging for the specific cost of the exam. The intent is for institutions to work collaboratively 
37 with community partners and health care providers to provide the best service to victims and 
survivors of violence, and to that end, institutions and local health care facilities are strongly encouraged to develop partnerships that go beyond the minimum required by law. To the extent 
additional agreements are reached, they can be memorialized in a memorandum of 
understanding. Nothing in this law requires or obligates institutions to pay a community organization or health care provider a fee or other consideration in exchange for signing a memorandum of understanding.  
  9. Nothing in this arti cle shall be deemed to diminish the rights of any member of the institution’s 
community under any applicable collective bargaining agreement.  
  
Certain rights and responsibilities of this law may be in conflict with provisions of applicable 
collective barg aining agreements. While institutions may wish to bargain for changes to those 
provisions, this law does not interfere with or abrogate existing collective bargaining agreements.  
  
Campus Climate Assessments (Section 6445):  
  
1. Every institution shall conduct, no less than every other year, a campus climate assessment to 
ascertain general awareness and knowledge of the provisions of this article, including student 
experience with and knowledge of reporting and college adjudicatory processes, which shall  be 
developed using standard and commonly recognized research methods.  
  
2. The assessment shall include questions covering, but not be limited to, the following:  
  a. the Title IX Coordinator's role;  
  
b. campus policies and procedures addressing sexual assault;  
  
c. how and where to report domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or sexual assault as a 
victim, survivor or witness;  
  d. the availability of resources on and off campus, such as counseling, health and academic 
assistance;  
  
e. the prevalence of victimization and perpetration of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault on and off campus during a set time period;  
  f. bystander attitudes and behavior;  
  
38 g. whether reporting individuals disclosed to the institution and/ or law enforcement, experiences 
with reporting and institution processes, and reasons why they did or did not report;  
  
h. the general awareness of the difference, if any, between the institution's policies and the penal 
law; and   i. general awareness of the definition of affirmative consent.  
  3. Every institution shall take steps to ensure that answers to such assessments remain anonymous and that no individual is identified. Institutions shall publish results of the surveys on their website provided that no personally identifiable information or information which can 
reasonably lead a reader to identify an individual shall be shared. 
  4. Information discovered or produced as a result of complying with this section shall not be subject to discovery or ad mitted into evidence in any federal or state court proceeding or 
considered for other purposes in any action for damages brought by a private party against an institution, unless, in the discretion of the court, any such information is deemed to be material to the underlying claim or defense.  
  
Every institution must conduct a climate survey to assess, at minimum, the topics raised in the 
legislation. This provision becomes effective in July 2016, meaning that the survey can be completed in the 2016- 2017 year to be compliant. A college may also c onduct the survey in 
2015- 2016 but the law allows the survey to be conducted as late as spring 2017. After that, the 
survey must occur at least every other year. There are no specific questions required by the law, 
and the law gives institutions flexibility in determining the best questions and language to use. 
The legislation neither limits the survey to students nor requires that institutions survey faculty and staff in addition to students. Further, the law neither requires that the survey be given to all nor limits the survey to representative samples. These decisions are to be made by each 
institution.  
  Several private colleges and the State University of New York have developed climate surveys that other institutions may choose to adopt or adapt for their purposes. Institutions may contact 
such institutions directly to ask about using questions and methods.   Climate surveys must be reviewed by the appropriate committees (institutional review boards) as they involve human subjects  (see generally http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/
).  
 As with all other aspects of the law, institutions are given flexibility to conduct this survey in a way that best serves students and in consideration of the campus culture and policies.    
39 Care must be taken to ensure that data is protected and that indi viduals responding cannot be 
identified when data is published on the web. There are no specific requirements for what 
information must be published, but institutions should review the top level survey result 
publications of other institutions that have completed climate surveys so as to ascertain best 
practices.  
  To encourage institutions to properly conduct climate surveys and encourage participation in the 
survey, the law creates a presumption that data and information from a climate survey is not 
admis sible in a federal or state court proceeding  unless the court , in its discretion , determines 
that the information is material to the underlying claim or defense. The phrase material  makes 
this a higher bar than the standard legal threshold for admissibilit y of evidence , which is 
relevance.  The White House Task Force has developed useful guidance on developing and conducting a climate survey: https://www.notalone.gov/assets/ovw -climate -survey.pdf
; 
http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/ccsvsftr.pdf .  
 
Options for Confidential Disclosure (Section 6446):  
  
1. In accordance with this arti cle, every institution shall ensure that reporting individuals have 
the following:  
  
This s ection applies to reporting individuals , and ensures that reporting individuals and potential 
reporting individuals are provided with clear and plain language regarding their options to report 
confidentially and/or privately, as those terms are defined in the law. T he State University of 
New York  has developed a policy relating to confidential disclosure . 
  a. Information regarding privileged and confidential resources they may contact r egarding 
domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or sexual assault;  
  Privileged and confidential are defined in Section 6439(5)&(6).  
  
b. Information about counselors and advocates they may contact regarding domestic violence, 
dating violence, stalki ng, or sexual assault;  
  These can include on campus resources and off campus resources. This section is consistent with 
the Office for Civil Rights  April 2011 Dear Colleague Letter  and April 2014 Dear Colleague 
Letter/Questions and Answers  regarding “nonprofessional counselors and advocates” (this is an 
OCR term consistent with this law’s term “counselors and advocates”).  
  
40 c. A plain language explanation of confidentiality which shall, at a minimum, include the 
following provision: “Even [Institution] offices and employees who cannot guarantee confidentiality will maintain your privacy to the greatest extent possible. The information you 
provide to a nonconfidential resource will be relayed only as necessary for the Title IX 
Coordinator to investigate and/or seek a resolution.”;  
  This language must be included verbatim. It is intended to provide students with uniform 
guidanc e about confidentiality, regardless of where they attend college in New York State. 
Privacy is the default setting for institution personnel. Only a few personnel at any institution 
have the ability to offer true confidentiality under the law. This stateme nt informs students that 
the confidential resources listed by the institution provide confidentiality, but other employees 
who offer privacy will not make their reported information public; they will treat it with respect 
and only share it as necessary to comply with law and/or institution policy.  
  d. Information about how the institution shall weigh a request for confidentiality and respond to 
such a request. Such information shall, at a minimum, include that if a reporting individual 
discloses an incident to an institution employee who is responsible for responding to or reporting domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault but wishes to maintain confidentiality or does not consent to the institution’s request to initiate an investigat ion, the 
Title IX Coordinator must weigh the request against the institution’s obligation to provide a safe, non-discriminatory environment for all members of its community. The institution shall assist 
with academic, housing, transportation, employment, and other reasonable and available 
accommodations regardless of reporting choices;  
  
The confidentiality referenced here is slightly different from the confidentiality referenced 
elsewhere in the law. Confidentiality as referenced here is intended to corres pond to the 
confidentiality of whether to go forward with an investigation as described in Office for Civil Rights guidance interpreting Title IX. The reference to confidentiality should be read as a 
shorthand for the statement in paragraph (4) of this s ection describing information for students 
who are “[d]eclining to consent to an investigation.” The Office for Civil Rights’ analysis of 
Title IX, as stated in their  April 2011 Dear Colleague Letter  and April 2014 Dear Colleague 
Letter/Questions and Answers  would require that Title IX Coordinators analyze each case where 
a reporting individual requests that an institution not go forward to determine whethe r the 
institution should or must go forward with an investigation and/or process anyway, even without the participation (or with the active opposition) of the reporting individual. The factors to be used by the Title IX Coordinator appear in paragraph 4 of  this s ection below. 
  The final sentence of the paragraph is intended to educate students that their rights to interim 
measures and accommodations referenced in Section 6444(4)( h) apply regardless of whether 
they decide to formally report and/or to participate in the investigation or conduct process. 
41 Reporting individuals may obtain all resources outlined in the law even if they decline to 
participate in an investigation or proce ss or actively oppose the institution proceeding in its 
process.  
  e. Information about public awareness and advocacy events, including guarantees that if an individual discloses information through a public awareness event such as candlelight vigils, protests, or other public event, the institution is not obligated to begin an investigation based on 
such information. The institution may use the information provided at such an event to inform its efforts for additional education and prevention efforts;  
 This paragraph is intended to notify potential reporting individuals that, in accord with the Office 
for Civil Rights’ analysis of Title IX, as stated in their  April 2014 Dear Colleague 
Letter/Questions and Answers  (modifying understanding of the  April 2011 Dear Colleague 
Letter ) institutions need not conduct a Title IX review of specific reports made at public events, 
including events like “Take Back the Ni ght,” “Paint the Campus Teal,” “Walk a Mile” and other 
similar events. A Title IX Coordinator, consistent with this law, can use information learned at public events for training and prevention work, but may respect the desire of individuals to outcry at t hese events and not, in doing so, be required to undergo the institution’s formal or 
informal process. A best practice would be to have an event leader state this clearly at the 
beginning of an outcry or open- microphone portion of such an event, and also l ist resources 
where a potential reporting individual could go to disclose confidentially and/or privately.  
Recall that the definition of Title IX Coordinator in this law also includes designees.  
  f. Information about existing and available methods to anonymously disclose including, but not 
limited to information on relevant confidential hotlines provided by New York state agencies and 
not-for-profit entities;  
  A curated list of New York State and national resources that is kept up- to-date may be found at  
the State University of New York Sexual Assault and Violence Response (SAVR) resource , by 
clicking on the blue tab named “ View NYS Resources.” A database of all resources is available 
on the SAVR site’s toolkit: 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E3ZZqQ03ah3RV_qhrUrdv3TNh5cNSQiq9N8BB21Ij -
Y/pub. Institutions may freely copy some or all of the resources available there to their 
institution web site or resource.  
 g. Information regarding institutional crime reporting including, but not limited to: reports of 
certain crimes occurring in specific geographic locations that shall be included in the 
institution’s annual security report pursuant to the Clery Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), in an anonymized manner that identifies neither the specifics of the crime nor the identity of the reporting individual; that the institution is obligated to issue timely warnings of crimes 
42 enumerated in the Clery Act occurring within relevant geography that represent a serious or 
continuing threat to students and employees, except in those circumstances where issuing such a warning may compromise current law enforcement efforts or when the warning itself could 
potentially identify the reporting  individual; that a reporting individual shall not be identified in 
a timely warning; that the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 U.S.C. 1232g, allows 
institutions to share information with parents when i. there is a health or safety emergency, or ii. when the student is a dependent on either parent’s prior year federal income tax return; and that 
generally, the institution shall not share information about a report of domestic violence, dating 
violence, stalking, or sexual assault with parents w ithout the permission of the reporting 
individual.   
This paragraph is a statement of the curren t requirements of the Clery Act  and the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The paragraph does not change anything in law 
but is an educational piece for students to include such information alongside other relevant policy information. 
  
2. The institution may take proactive steps, such as training or awareness efforts, to combat domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or sexual assault in a general way that does not identify those who disclose or the information disclosed. 
  
This provision speaks for itself.  
3. If the institution determines that an investigation is required, it shall notify the reporting individuals and take immediate action as necessary to protect and assist them.  
  This provision speaks for itself.  4. The institution should seek consent from reporting individuals prior to conducting an 
investigation. Declining to consent to an investigation shall be honored unless the institution 
determines in good faith that failure to investigate does not adequately mitigate a potential risk of harm to the reporting individual or other members of the community. Honoring such a request may limit the institution’s ability to meaningfully investigate and pursue conduct action against 
an accused individual. Factors used to determine whether to honor such a request include, but 
are not limited to:  
  a. Whether the accused has a history of violent behavior or is a repeat offender;  
  b. Whether the incident represents escalation in unlawful conduct on behalf of the accused from 
previously noted behavior;  
  
43 c. The increased risk that the accused will commit additional acts of violence;  
  
d. Whether the accused used a weapon or force;  
  e. Whether the reporting individual is a minor; and 
  f. Whether the institution possesses other means to obtain evidence such as security footage, and 
whether available information reveals a pattern of perpetration at a given location or by a 
particular group.   This paragraph adds details to the balance considered by the Title IX Coordinator in (1)(d) of this 
section. In general, consistent with the Clery  Act and the Office for Civil Rights’ interpretations 
of Title IX, institutions should respect the reques t of a reporting individual to withdraw his or her 
complaint and to have the institution not investigate and/or take any action. However, consistent 
with the aforementioned federal laws, this law requires that the Title IX Coordinator or designee 
analyze t he factors established in (4)(a) -(f) of this section to determine whether not going 
forward with the institution’s process would fail to adequately mitigate a potential risk of harm 
to the reporting individual and/or other members of the community. The law  does not draw 
bright lines or tell institutions how to weigh these factors. Rather, the law gives broad discretion 
to institutions, expected to act in good faith to develop policies, procedures and protocols to 
properly weigh the risks to the reporting individual and other members of the institution community against the wishes of the reporting individual not to have the institution move 
forward.  
  
Student Onboarding and Ongoing Education (Section 6447):  
  
1. Every institution shall adopt a comprehensive s tudent onboarding and ongoing education 
campaign to educate members of the institution’s community about domestic violence, dating 
violence, stalking, and sexual assault, in compliance with applicable federal laws, including the 
Clery Act as amended by the  Violence Against Women Act reauthorization of 2013, 20 U.S.C. 
1092(f).  
  
Education Law 129- B codifies some of the  education and training requirements of  the Clery Act, 
20 U.S.C. 1092(f)(8)(B) and 34 C.F.R. §658.46 (j)  as amended by the Violence Against Wo men 
Act relating to primary and ongoing prevention and awareness programs while providing plain 
language and consistent requirements for colleges to implement those federal requirements and, in certain limited areas that are specifically delineated, going beyond the federal law.  This 
section should be read to be consistent with the Clery  Act except in the specific cases where the 
law goes beyond those requirements.    
44 The law does not prescribe any specific method for educating students, and each institution 
should use good faith to develop programs that best meet the needs of s tudents and educate them 
about these important issues.   
  
Except as specifically required in paragraph 6 regarding student leaders and athletes, the obligation of each institution is to offer training in a meaningful way to students (including but not limited to entering students) . With the exception of paragraph 6 covering athletes and student 
leaders, there is no requirement that students complete the training, and no requirement that students sign -in to a training  session , or that institutions create an  audit trail to show 100 percent  
attendance at a training or among students. There is no requirement that institutions discipline or sanction students who choose not to attend one or more offered trainings, nor are institutions 
required to prevent students  choosing not to attend from registering for classes, graduating, etc.  
  
While software or digital training may be part  of a regime for training and education (and may 
be the only option for institutions that primarily offer classes in a distributed or online manner), 
for traditional brick and mortar campuses, institutions should not simply use a software package 
and requi re students to log in and prove attendance. Studies and experience show that they will 
not learn best this way and that they will come to resent the training.  
  
Instead, institutions should be creative with training that is meaningful to students and that offers 
students different options over the course of their time on campus to learn about these issues from both the prevention and response angles.  The legislation encourages institutions to work 
together and with s tatewide and local organizations to deve lop and offer interesting and useful 
trainings. Institutions may also see strong results by calling on students, faculty, staff and 
community members to assist in developing tailored programming.  
  
2. Included in this campaign shall be a requirement that all new first- year and transfer students 
shall, during the course of their onboarding to their respective institution, receive training on the 
following topics, using a method and manner appropriate to the institutional culture of each 
institution:  
  Summe r orientations are packed full of content and at a certain point, additional training comes 
with diminishing returns. Traditionally, as a best practice and pursuant to the requirements of Education Law §6432, institutions offer training in sexual assault pr evention during new student 
orientation. The changed requirement of “onboarding” is intended to be reflective of a regime of training that is not limited to a single session on a single orientation day. Rather, each institution, 
consistent with its best pr actices and culture, should develop a series of programs over the course 
of the new student experience.  
  
45 a. The institution prohibits sexual and interpersonal violence and will offer resources to any 
victims and survivors of such violence while taking adm inistrative and conduct action regarding 
any accused individual within the jurisdiction of the institution;  
  b. Relevant definitions including, but not limited to, the definitions of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, confidenti ality, privacy, and consent;  
  
c. Policies apply equally to all students regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, or 
gender expression;  
  d. The role of the Title IX Coordinator, university police or campus security, and other relevant 
offices th at address domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault prevention 
and response;  
  
e. Awareness of violence, its impact on victims and survivors and their friends and family, and its 
long- term impact;  
  
f. Bystander intervention and the  importance of taking action to prevent violence when one can 
safely do so;  
  g. Risk assessment and reduction including, but not limited to, steps that potential victims, perpetrators, and bystanders can take to lower the incidence of violations, which may contain 
information about the dangers of drug and alcohol use, including underage drinking and binge drinking, involuntary consumption of incapacitating drugs and the danger of mislabeled drugs 
and alcohol, the importance of communication with trusted fr iends and family whether on 
campus or off campus, and the availability of institution officials who can answer general or 
specific questions about risk reduction; and  
  
h. Consequences and sanctions for individuals who commit these crimes and code of conduct 
violations.  At a minimum, the onboarding programing should cover the topics listed here, again in a method 
and manner appropriate to the institution. Not every topic needs to be covered in every session, 
and institutions can determine which areas to go can determine which areas to emphasize, but over the course of the programming  all topics should be covered. Again, while institutions must 
offer this  programming to students, the law does not require that students attend. The impetus is 
to develop creative trainings that engage students, rather than rote trainings that comply, but that bore students.  
46 3. Every institution shall train all new students, whether first -year or transfer, undergraduate, 
graduate, or professional. 
  
New students are requir ed to be trained regardless of whether it is their first day as an 
undergraduate  or they are in  graduate or professional school, and this provision should be read 
consistently with the Clery Act and the p aragraphs above.  
  4. Every institution shall use multiple methods to educate students about violence prevention and 
shall share information on domestic violence, dating violence, stalking and sexual assault prevention with parents of enrolling students.  
 
The law discourages institutions from simply sendi ng students to a website or a software 
program and relying entirely on that. Rather, with the exception of institutions that can only rely 
on software or web programming due to their nature as an online or distance only institution, institutions should use  several methods, consistent with best practices, to best educate students.  
  Institutions shall also share information on sexual and interpersonal violence with parents of students. There are several ways to comply with this. One is to provide information directly to parents, either by mail or to parents attending programming. Many institutions, especially 
graduate and professional schools, do not collect contact information for parents. 
Acknowledging this, another method to comply with this provision woul d be to post information 
on a web page directed specifically at parents, that can be found on the institution website in an 
appropriate place or places, that can be found via a search of the website, and that is available generally with information for par ents customized to the specific institution.  
 5. Every institution shall offer to all students general and specific training in domestic violence, dating violence, stalking and sexual assault prevention and shall conduct a campaign that complies with the V iolence Against Women Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), to educate the student 
population. They shall, as appropriate, provide or expand specific training to include groups such as international students, students that are also employees, leaders and officers of registered or recognized student organizations, and online and distance education students. They 
shall also provide specific training to members of groups that the institution identifies as high-
risk populations. 
 This provision is separate from and in additi on to paragraph 2 of this s ection. Institutions must 
offer training to new students during the onboarding period and engage in a campaign over the 
course of each academic year that offers different training and education options.  
  As stated above under paragraph 1 , this paragraph should be read in a manner consistent with the 
Clery Act. A campaign of programming shall be offered to all students that wish to participate. 
47 Institutions should make programming available at different times and in different for mats to 
encourage participation. 
 
Beyond this, institutions should use good faith to determine whether specific groups of students 
could benefit from more specific or tailored training. There is no requirement that each group receive individualized trainin g, but institutions should determine whether there is additional 
tailored training that, if offered to specific groups, could assist in prevention and response. The 
legislation lists examples of groups such as international students, students who are also 
employees, student leaders and online students. That is not an exclusive list, but are  examples to 
help institutions identify student groups that may benefit from additional, tailored training. Institutions should tailor training to their student populatio n. 
  Each institution should also use good faith efforts to determine whether specific groups of students are in high risk populations who could benefit from more specific or tailored training. Institutions determine who these populations are and an instit ution can determine whether it 
wishes to provide training for populations who are at high risk for victimization, perpetration, being a bystander to violence, or a combination of these groups. In different years, population changes may lead to different determinations of membership in high risk populations. Again, the idea is for institutions to consider going beyond generalized training equally applicable to all to 
specialized training that could lessen violence when directed at a specific population.  
  
6. Every institution shall require that each student leader and officer of student organizations 
recognized by or registered with the institution, as well as those seeking recognition by the institution, complete training on domestic violence, dating violenc e, stalking, or sexual assault 
prevention prior to receiving recognition or registration, and each institution shall require that each student athlete complete training on domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault prevention prior to participating in intercollegiate athletic competition.  
  
This paragraph is the only provision of this onboarding s ection of the law that goes beyond the 
requirements of the Clery  Act. While the above p aragraphs require institutions to offer training 
and a campaign of education generally, this provision requires completion of training by student 
leaders (including athletes and club/organization officers and leaders)  in an effort to  change the 
culture in schools . 
  Institutions have significant  flexibility in how to offer these required trainings. The legislation 
uses the disjunctive “or” in requiring training on domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or 
sexual assault prevention, giving institutions flexibility to have broad or tailored programming 
that covers one topic in detail or several topics. Institutions may conduct a single training or a 
series of trainings for all athletes or student leaders or they may allow such students to show that they have attended one of many trainings off ered by the institution over the course of the 
48 semester. Institutions should endeavor to accomplish this in good faith. The training requirement 
is not measured by the organization or team being trained once, but by each officer , leader , or 
athlete complet ing the training her or himself to qualify for their position as athlete or 
club/organization leader. The legislation does not denote which individuals are considered “leaders” and “officers” and leaves it to the institution. While many student organizations have a president, vice president, t reasurer, and s ecretary, other organizations have chancellors, directors, 
captains, or other titles. Each institution can use good faith to determine for its own organizations 
who the appropriate individuals are to receive the training. Other institutions may comply by 
requiring each organization to show that its leaders have been trained, for instance , by requiring 
each organization to list in its registration/recognition application four leaders (as determined by the organization) who have completed training. Completing one such training is the minimum 
required by the law but institutions may require or encourage attendance at multiple trainings by 
covered students.   As stated se veral times, the legislation is tailored to encourage institutions to use good faith to 
educate covered students in useful ways using best practices. Institutions may make small, reasonable adjustments and be in compliance. For instance, if a major training is scheduled for September 15, allowing fall sport athletes to begin competition with the understanding that they would be trained within their first month of play, or allowing student organization leaders to 
begin their “back to school” programming unde rstanding that they would be imminently 
attending a training during the fall semester should be seen as compliant with the law, provided 
that the institution uses good faith to ensure such covered students do obtain the training.  
  This training must be of fered  in addition to the training offered as onboarding to incoming 
students.   7. Every institution must regularly assess programs and policies established pursuant to this article to determine effectiveness and relevance for students.  
  The law does not specify the method for such assessment, but institutions should seek to determine whether their methods of education reflect best practices and current thinking. Assessment may include review of internal programs and procedures, review of external 
programs  and procedure conducted at other institutions, and/or review of resources prepared by 
government agencies and not -for-profit entities.  
  
No program is effective indefinitely and this requirement will remind institutions to keep current 
on best practices s o as to educate and train students with maximum effectiveness.  
  
  
49 Privacy in Legal Challenges (Section 6448):  
  
Pursuant to subdivision (i ) of rule three thousand sixteen of the civil practice law and rules, in 
any proceeding brought against an institution which seeks to vacate or modify a finding that a student was responsible for violating an institution’s rules regarding a violation cover ed by this 
article, the name and identifying biographical information of any student shall be presumptively confidential and shall not be included in the pleadings and other papers from such proceeding 
absent a waiver or cause shown as determined by the court. Such witnesses shall be identified 
only as numbered witnesses. If such a name or identifying biographical information appears in a pleading or paper filed in such a proceeding, the court, absent such a waiver or cause shown, shall direct the clerk of the court to redact such name and identifying biographical information 
and so advise the parties. 
  There have been reports of some attorneys seeking to shame reporting individuals by exposing their status as a victim or survivor of sexual or interpersonal  violence by naming them in a 
complaint against the college or university that took action under the student conduct code.  There is no legal or procedural gain from naming reporting individuals, but it ha s a significant 
negative impact on the willingness of victims to come forward and report.  There is no diminution in the rights and options available to respondent students challenging student conduct 
findings that comes through calling reporting individuals and other student witnesses Witness 1, 
Witness 2 , etc.  This provision does not prevent the respondent (plaintiff or complainant in such 
a case) from naming himself or herself, or naming any student witnesses who waive their right to 
confidentiality.  Further, t his provision does not apply to non- student  witnesses including, but not 
limited to, faculty and staff, law enforcement, and witnesses testifying in a professional capacity.  
  
Reporting Aggregate Data to the Department (Section 6449):  
  
1. Institutions shall annually report to the department the f ollowing information about reports of 
domestic violence, dating violence, stalking and sexual assault:  
  a. The number of such incidents that were reported to the Title IX Coordinator.   
b. Of those incidents in paragraph a of this subdivision, the number of reporting individuals who 
sought the institution’s judicial or conduct process.   c. Of those reporting individuals in paragraph b of this subdivision, the number of cases 
processed through the institution’s judicial or conduct process.  
  
d. Of those cases in paragraph c of this subdivision, the number of respondents who were found responsible through the institution’s judicial or conduct process.  
50  e. Of those cases in paragraph c of this subdivision, the number of respondents who were found 
not responsi ble through the institution’s judicial or conduct process.  
  
f. A description of the final sanctions imposed by the institution for each incident for which a 
respondent was found responsible, as provided in paragraph d of this subdivision, through the institution’s judicial or conduct process.  
  
g. The number of cases in the institution's judicial or conduct process that were closed prior to a 
final determination after the respondent withdrew from the institution and declined to complete the disciplinary pr ocess.  
  
h. The number of cases in the institution’s judicial or conduct process that were closed because 
the complaint was withdrawn by the reporting individual prior to a final determination.   2. The department shall create a reporting mechanism for institutions to efficiently and uniformly 
provide the information outlined in subdivision one of this section. 
  3. The department shall not release the information, as provided for in this section, if it would compromise the confidentiality of reporting individuals or any other party in the best judgment 
of the department. 
  4. Within one year of the effective date of this article, the department shall issue regulations in 
consultation with representatives from the state university of New York, city unive rsity of New 
York, and private and independent colleges and universities, and within two years of the effective 
date of this article the department shall issue a report to the governor, the temporary president 
of the senate, the speaker of the assembly and the chairs of the higher education committees in each house regarding the data collected pursuant to this section.   
SED shall conduct a rulemaking  process , with sufficient notice and comment, and provide 
further guidance on complying with the provisions of this s ection.  
  
Additional Provisions:  
  
The legislation establishes a special unit within the State Police to assist in complying with this law including providing forensic support services to University Police, Campus Safety  and local 
law enforcement and providing training to college campuses, and appropriates $4.5 million 
dollars to the State Police. Another $4.5 million dollars is appropriated through the Office of Victim Services and Department of Health towards prevention, education and victim services of rape crisis centers. Finally, $1 million dollars is appropriated to colleges and universities for training and other expenses related to successful implementation of this legislation.  
51  VI-         Further Resources:  
  
● Governor’s Office Program Page: https://www.ny.gov/programs/enough- enough-
combating -sexual -assault -college -campuses  
● New York Article 129 -B Legislation: 
http://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/bills/2015/S5965  
● Signed Legislation Press Release: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor -cuomo-
signs -enough -enough- legislation -combat -sexual -assault -college- and-university  
● Distinctions Between Penal Law and Discipline: http://system.suny.edu/sexual -violence -
prevention- workgroup/College -and-Criminal- Resource/  
● New York State Department of Health Rape Crisis and Sexual Violence Prevention 
Program: https://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/sexual_violence/   
● New York State Office for the Prevention of Domestic Violence: 
http://www.opdv.ny.gov/  
● New  York State Coalition Against Sexual Assault: http://nyscasa.org/   
● New York State Coalition Against Domestic Violence: http://www.nyscadv.org/  
● New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault: http://www.svfreenyc.org/   
● Violence Against Women Act Final Regulations: 
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2014/10/20/2014- 24284/violence -against -
women -act  
● Guidance for Complying with the Violence Against Women Act: 
http://system.suny.edu/media/suny/content -assets/documents/generalcounsel/SUNY -
VAWA- Guidance -2014.pdf   
● Federal Department of Education Office for Civil Rights Title IX Guidance:  
http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/publications.html#TitleIX   
 
SED provides links to these external resources  throughout  this document but does not control 
these resources. Such links are not an endorsement of any content not created by SED. SED 
welcomes additional resources developed by institutions, s tate agencies and community 
organizations to aid in compliance with this law.  
52 