 
LAWS OF NEW YORK, 2015  
                                  CHAPTER 76  
   AN  ACT to amend the education law, in relation to the implementation by  
     colleges and universities of sexual assault, dating violence, domestic  
     violence and stalking prevention and response policies and procedures;  
     and to amend the civil practice law and rules, in relation to  privacy  
     of name in certain lega l challenges to college/university disciplinary  
     findings; and making appropriations therefor  
  
         Became a law July 7, 2015, with the approval of the Governor.  
            Passed by a majority vote, three -fifths being present.  
  
     The  People  of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assem - 
   bly, do enact as follows:  
  
     Section 1. The education law is amended by adding a new article  129 -B 
   to read as follows:  
                                 ARTICLE 129 -B 
        IMPLEMENTATION BY COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES OF SEXUAL ASSAULT,  
        DATING VIOLENCE, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND STALKING PREVENTION AND  
                       RESPONSE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  
   Section 6439. Definitions.  
           6440. General provisions.  
           6441. Affirmative consent to sexual activity.  
           6442. Policy for alcohol and/or drug use amnesty.  
           6443. Students' bill of rights.  
           6444. Response to reports.  
           6445. Campus climate assessments.  
           6446. Options for confidential disclosure.  
           6447. Student onboarding and ongoing education.  
           6448. Privacy in legal challenges.  1 
 
           6449. Reporting aggregate data to the department.  
     § 6439. Definitions. As used in this artic le, the following terms have  
   the following meanings:  
     1. "Institution" shall mean any college or university chartered by the  
   regents or incorporated by special act of the legislature that maintains  
   a campus in New York.  
     2.  "Title  IX Coo rdinator" shall mean the Title IX Coordinator and/or  
   his or her designee or designees.   
     3. "Bystander" shall mean a person who  observes  a  crime,  impending  
   crime,  conflict,  potentially  violent  or violent behavior, or conduct  
   that is in  violation of rules or policies of an institution.  
     4. "Code of conduct" shall mean the written  policies  adopted  by  an  
   institution  governing  student  behavior,  rights, and responsibilities  
   while such student is matriculated in the institution.  
     5. "Confidentiality" may be  offered  by  an  individual  who  is  not  
   required  by  law  to  report known incidents of sexual assault or other  
   crimes to institution officials, in a manner consistent with  state  and  
   federal  law,  including  but  not  limited  to 20 U.S.C. 1092(f) and 20  
   U.S.C. 1681(a). Licensed mental health counselors, medical providers and  
  
   EXPLANATION --Matter in italics is new; matter in brackets [  ] is old law  
                                to be omitted.  
   CHAP. 76                           2  
  
   pastoral counselors are examples of institution employees who may  offer  
   confidentiality.  
     6.  "Privacy"  may be offered by an individual when such individual is  
   unable to offer confidentialit y  under  the  law  but  shall  still  not  
   disclose information learned from a reporting individual or bystander to  
   a  crime  or  incident more than necessary to comply with this and other  
   applicable laws, including informing appropriate instituti on  officials.  
   Institutions  may substitute another relevant term having the same mean - 2 
 
   ing, as appropriate to the policies of the institution.  
     7. "Accused" shall mean a person accused of a violation  who  has  not  
   yet entered an institution' s judicial or conduct process.  
     8.  "Respondent"  shall  mean  a person accused of a violation who has  
   entered an institution's judicial or conduct process.  
     9. "Reporting individual" shall encompass the terms victim,  survivor,  
   complainant,  claimant,  witness  with victim status, and any other term  
   used by an institution to reference an individual  who  brings  forth  a  
   report of a violation.  
     10.  "Sexual activity" shall have the same meaning as "sexual act" and  
   "sexual contact " as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2246(2) and 18 U.S.C. 2246(3).  
     11. "Domestic violence", "dating  violence",  "stalking"  and  "sexual  
   assault"  shall be defined by each institution in its code of conduct in  
   a manner consistent with applicable federal  definitions.  
     § 6440. General provisions.  1. Every institution shall:  
     a. adopt written rules implementing this article by amending its  code  
   of conduct or other comparable policies;  
     b.  annually  file  with  the department on or before t he first day of  
   July, beginning in two thousand sixteen,  a  certificate  of  compliance  
   with the provisions of this article; and  
     c.  file  a copy of all written rules and policies adopted as required  
   in this article with the department on or  before the first day of  July,  
   two  thousand  sixteen, and once every ten years thereafter, except that  
   the second filing shall coincide with the required filing under  article  
   one  hundred  twenty -nine-A  of  this  chapter, and continue on the same 
   cycle thereafter.  
     2. All institutional services and protections  afforded  to  reporting  
   individuals  under  this  article shall be available to all students and  
   applicable to conduct that has a reasonable connection to that  institu - 
   tion.  When such conduct involves students or employees from two or more  
   institutions, such institutions may work collaboratively to address  the  
   conduct provided that such collaboration complies with the Family Educa - 3 
 
   tional  Rights  and  Privacy  Act codified at 20 U.S.C. 1232g; 34 C.F.R.  
   Part 99.  
     3. If an institution fails to file a certificate of compliance  on  or  
   before  September first beginning in two thousand sixteen, such institu - 
   tion shall be ineligib le to receive state aid  or  assistance  until  it  
   files  such a certificate. The department shall conduct audits of insti - 
   tutions by random selection, at any  time  after  September  first,  two  
   thousand sixteen, to ensure compliance with the pr ovisions of this arti - 
   cle, and shall post information and statistics regarding compliance with  
   this article on the department's website.  
     4.  A copy of such rules and policies shall be provided by each insti - 
   tution to all students enrolled i n said institution using a  method  and  
   manner appropriate to its institutional culture.  Each institution shall  
   also post such rules and policies on its website in an easily accessible  
   manner to the public.  
                                      3                            CHAP. 76  
  
     5.  The  protections  in this article apply regardless of race, color,  
   national origin, religion, creed, age, disability, sex, gender  identity  
   or  expression,  sexual orientation, familial status, pregnanc y, predis - 
   posing  genetic  characteristics,  military  status,  domestic  violence  
   victim status, or criminal conviction.  
     6.  The  provisions  of this article shall apply regardless of whether  
   the violation occurs on campus, off campus, or w hile studying abroad.  
     7. Institutions shall, where appropriate, utilize applicable state and  
   federal law, regulations, and guidance in writing the policies  required  
   pursuant to this article.  
     8.  Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit in any way the  
   provisions of the penal law that apply to the criminal action  analogous  
   to the student conduct code violations referenced herein. Action pursued  
   through  the criminal justice process shall be governed by the penal law  
   and the criminal procedure law.  4 
 
     9. Nothing in this article shall be construed to create a new  private  
   right of action for any person.  
     10.  Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent an institu - 
   tion from continuing an investigation when required by law  to  continue  
   such investigation.   
     §  6441.  Affirmative consent to sexual activity. 1. Every institution  
   shall adopt the following definition of affirmative consent as  part  of  
   its  cod e  of conduct: "Affirmative consent is a knowing, voluntary, and  
   mutual decision among all participants to  engage  in  sexual  activity.  
   Consent  can  be  given  by  words or actions, as long as those words or  
   actions create clear permission rega rding willingness to engage  in  the  
   sexual  activity.  Silence or lack of resistance, in and of itself, does  
   not demonstrate consent. The definition of consent does not  vary  based  
   upon a participant's sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, o r gender  
   expression."  
     2.  Each  institution's  code  of  conduct shall reflect the following  
   principles as guidance for the institution's community:  
     a. Consent to any sexual  act  or  prior  consensual  sexual  activity  
   between or with a ny party does not necessarily constitute consent to any  
   other sexual act.  
     b. Consent is required regardless of whether the person initiating the  
   act is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.  
     c. Consent may be initially given but withdrawn at any time.  
     d.  Consent  cannot  be  given  when  a person is incapacitated, which  
   occurs when an individual lacks  the  ability  to  knowingly  choose  to  
   participate in sexual activity. Incapacitation may be caused by the lack  
   of  consciousness or being asleep, being involuntarily restrained, or if  
   an individual otherwise cannot consent.   Depending  on  the  degree  of  
   intoxication,  someone  who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or  
   other intoxicants may be incap acitated and therefore unable to consent.  
     e. Consent cannot be given when it is  the  result  of  any  coercion,  
   intimidation, force, or threat of harm.  5 
 
     f.  When consent is withdrawn or can no longer be given, sexual activ - 
   ity must stop.   
     § 6442. Policy for alcohol and/or drug use amnesty. 1. Every  institu - 
   tion  shall adopt and implement the following policy as part of its code  
   of conduct: "The health and safety of every student at the {Institution}  
   is of utmost importance. {Institution} recognizes that students who have  
   been drinking and/or using drugs  (whether  such  use  is  voluntary  or  
   involuntary)  at  the  time  that violence, including but not limited to  
   domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexu al  assault  occurs  
   CHAP. 76                           4  
  
   may be hesitant to report such incidents due to fear of potential conse - 
   quences   for  their  own  conduct.  {Institution}  strongly  encourages  
   students to report domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  stalking,  or  
   sexual  assault  to  institution  officials.  A bystander acting in good  
   faith or a reporting individual acting in good faith that discloses  any  
   incident  of  domestic  violence,  dating  violence, stalking, or sexual 
   assault to {Institution's} officials or  law  enforcement  will  not  be  
   subject  to  {Institution's}  code  of  conduct action for violations of  
   alcohol and/or drug use policies occurring at or near the  time  of  the  
   commission of the domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexu - 
   al assault."   
     2.  Nothing  in  this  section  shall  be construed to limit an insti - 
   tution's ability to provide amnesty in additional circumstances.  
     § 6443. Students' bill of rights. E very institution  shall  adopt  and  
   implement  the  following "Students' Bill of Rights" as part of its code  
   of conduct which shall be distributed annually to students, made  avail - 
   able on each institution's website, posted in campus residence ha lls and 
   campus  centers, and shall include links or information to file a report  
   and seek a response, pursuant to section sixty -four  hundred  forty -four 
   of this article, and the options for confidential disclosure pursuant to  
   section sixty -four hundred forty -six of this article: "All students have  6 
 
   the  right  to:  1.  Make a report to local law enforcement and/or state  
   police; 2. Have  disclosures  of  domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  
   stalking, and sexual assault treated seriousl y; 3. Make a decision about  
   whether  or  not to disclose a crime or violation and participate in the  
   judicial or conduct process and/or criminal justice  process  free  from  
   pressure  by  the institution; 4. Participate in a process that is fair,  
   impartial, and provides adequate notice and a meaningful opportunity  to  
   be heard; 5. Be treated with dignity and to receive from the institution  
   courteous,  fair,  and  respectful  health care and counseling services,  
   where available; 6. Be free from any suggestion that the reporting indi - 
   vidual is at fault when these crimes and violations  are  committed,  or  
   should  have  acted  in  a  different  manner  to  avoid  such crimes or  
   violations; 7.  Describe the  incident to as  few  institution  represen - 
   tatives  as  practicable  and  not be required to unnecessarily repeat a  
   description of the incident; 8. Be protected  from  retaliation  by  the  
   institution,  any  student,  the  accused  and/or the re spondent, and/or  
   their friends, family and acquaintances within the jurisdiction  of  the  
   institution;  9.  Access  to  at least one level of appeal of a determi - 
   nation; 10. Be accompanied by an advisor of choice who  may  assist  and  
   advise  a  reporting  individual,  accused, or respondent throughout the  
   judicial or conduct process including during all meetings  and  hearings  
   related  to such process; and 11.  Exercise civil rights and practice of  
   religion without interference by the  investigative, criminal justice, or  
   judicial or conduct process of the institution."  
     § 6444. Response to reports. 1. Every institution  shall  ensure  that  
   reporting individuals are advised of their right to:  
     a. Notify university police or  campus security, local law enforcement,  
   and/or state police;  
     b.  Have emergency access to a Title IX Coordinator or other appropri - 
   ate official trained in interviewing victims of sexual assault who shall  
   be  available upon the first instanc e of disclosure by a reporting indi - 
   vidual to provide information regarding options to proceed,  and,  where  7 
 
   applicable, the importance of preserving evidence and obtaining a sexual  
   assault forensic examination as soon as possible, and detailing that the  
   criminal  justice  process  utilizes  different  standards  of proof and  
                                      5                            CHAP. 76  
  
   evidence and that  any  questions  about  whether  a  specific  incident  
   violated  the penal law should be addressed to law enforcement or to the  
   district attorney. Such official shall also explain whether he or she is  
   authorized to offer the reporting individual confidentiality or privacy,  
   and shall inform the reporting individual of other reporting options;  
     c.  Disclose  confidentially  the  incident  to  institution represen - 
   tatives, who may offer confidentiality pursuant to applicable  laws  and  
   can assist in obtaining services for reporting individuals;  
     d.  Disc lose  confidentially the incident and obtain services from the  
   state or local government;  
     e. Disclose the incident to institution representatives who can  offer  
   privacy  or confidentiality, as appropriate, and can assist in obtaining  
   resource s for reporting individuals;  
     f.  File  a  report  of  sexual  assault,  domestic  violence,  dating  
   violence,  and/or stalking and the right to consult the Title IX Coordi - 
   nator and other appropriate institution representatives for  information  
   and  assistance. Reports shall be investigated in accordance with insti - 
   tution policy and a reporting individual's identity shall remain private  
   at all times if said reporting individual wishes to maintain privacy;  
     g. Disclose, if the accus ed is an employee  of  the  institution,  the  
   incident  to the institution's human resources authority or the right to  
   request that a confidential or private employee assist in  reporting  to  
   the appropriate human resources authority;  
     h.  Receive assistance from appropriate institution representatives in  
   initiating legal proceedings in family court or civil court; and  
     i. Withdraw a complaint or involvement from the institution process at  
   any time.  8 
 
     2. Every institution shall ensure that, at a  minimum,  at  the  first  
   instance  of  disclosure  by  a  reporting  individual to an institution  
   representative, the following information  shall  be  presented  to  the  
   reporting individual: "You have the right to make a repor t to university  
   police or campus security, local law enforcement, and/or state police or  
   choose  not to report; to report the incident to your institution; to be  
   protected by the institution from retaliation for reporting an incident;  
   and to receive assistance and resources from your institution."  
     3. Every institution shall  ensure  that  reporting  individuals  have  
   information about resources, including intervention, mental health coun - 
   seling, and medical services, which shall in clude information on whether  
   such  resources are available at no cost or for a fee. Every institution  
   shall also provide information on sexually transmitted infections, sexu - 
   al assault forensic examinations, and resources  available  through  the  
   New  York  state  office  of  victim  services,  established pursuant to  
   section six hundred twenty -two of the executive law.  
     4. Every institution shall ensure that individuals  are  provided  the  
   following protections and accommodations:  
     a.  When  the accused or respondent is a student, to have the institu - 
   tion issue a "no contact order" consistent with institution policies and  
   procedures, whereby continued intentional  contact  with  the  reporting  
   individual  would  be a vio lation of institution policy subject to addi - 
   tional conduct charges; if the accused or  respondent  and  a  reporting  
   individual observe each other in a public place, it shall be the respon - 
   sibility   of the accused or respondent to leave the area immediately and  
   without directly contacting the reporting individual. Both  the  accused  
   or  respondent  and  the  reporting  individual  shall, upon request and  
   consistent with institution  policie s  and  procedures,  be  afforded  a  
   prompt  review,  reasonable under the circumstances, of the need for and  
   CHAP. 76                           6  
  
   terms of a no contact order, including potential modification, and shall  9 
 
   be allowed to submit e vidence in support of his or her request.   Insti - 
   tutions  may  establish  an  appropriate  schedule  for  the accused and  
   respondents to access applicable institution buildings and property at a  
   time  when  such  buildings  and  property are not  being accessed by the  
   reporting individual;  
     b. To be assisted by the institution's police or security  forces,  if  
   applicable,  or  other officials in obtaining an order of protection or,  
   if outside of New York state, an equivalent  protecti ve  or  restraining  
   order; 
     c.  To  receive  a  copy of the order of protection or equivalent when  
   received by an institution and have an opportunity to meet or speak with  
   an institution representative, or other appropriate individual, who  ca n 
   explain  the  order and answer questions about it, including information  
   from the order about the accused's responsibility to stay away from  the  
   protected person or persons;  
     d.  To  an explanation of the consequences for violating these or ders, 
   including but not limited to arrest,  additional  conduct  charges,  and  
   interim suspension;  
     e.  To receive assistance from university police or campus security in  
   effecting an arrest when an individual violates an order  of  protection  
   or,  if  university police or campus security does not possess arresting  
   powers, then to call on and assist local law enforcement in effecting an  
   arrest for violating such an order, provided that nothing in this  arti - 
   cle shall limit current law enforcement jurisdiction and procedures;  
     f. When the accused or respondent is a student determined to present a  
   continuing  threat to the health and safety of the community, to subject  
   the accused or respondent to interim suspension pending the outcome of a  
   judicial or conduct process consistent with this article and the  insti - 
   tution's policies and procedures. Both the accused or respondent and the  
   reporting  individual shall, upon request and consistent with the insti - 
   tution's  policies and procedures, be afforded a prompt  review,  reason - 
   able  under  the  circumstances, of the need for and terms of an interim  10 
 
   suspension, including potential modification, and shall  be  allowed  to  
   submit evidence in support of his or  her request;  
     g.  When  the  accused  is not a student but is a member of the insti - 
   tution's community and presents a continuing threat to  the  health  and  
   safety  of  the community, to subject the accused to interim measures in  
   accordance with applicable collective  bargaining  agreements,  employee  
   handbooks, and rules and policies of the institution;  
     h.  To  obtain  reasonable and available interim measures and accommo - 
   dations that effect a change in academic, housing, employm ent, transpor - 
   tation or other applicable arrangements in order to help ensure  safety,  
   prevent retaliation and avoid an ongoing hostile environment, consistent  
   with  the  institution's  policies  and  procedures. Both the accused or  
   respondent  and the reporting individual shall, upon request and consist - 
   ent with the institution's policies and procedures, be afforded a prompt  
   review, reasonable under the circumstances, of the need for and terms of  
   any such interim measure and accommoda tion that directly affects him  or  
   her,  and  shall  be allowed to submit evidence in support of his or her  
   request.  
     5. Every institution shall ensure that every student be  afforded  the  
   following rights:  
     a.  The right to request that s tudent conduct charges be filed against  
   the accused in proceedings governed by this article and  the  procedures  
   established by the institution's rules.  
                                      7                            CHAP. 76  
  
     b.    The righ t to a process in all student judicial or conduct cases,  
   where a student is accused of sexual assault, domestic violence,  dating  
   violence,  stalking,  or  sexual activity that may otherwise violate the  
   institution's code of conduct, that includes , at a minimum:  (i)  notice  
   to  a respondent describing the date, time, location and factual allega - 
   tions concerning the violation, a reference  to  the  specific  code  of  
   conduct  provisions  alleged  to  have been violated, and possible sanc - 11 
 
   tions; (ii) an opportunity to offer evidence  during  an  investigation,  
   and  to  present evidence and testimony at a hearing, where appropriate,  
   and have access to a full and fair record of  any  such  hearing,  which  
   shall  be  preserved  an d maintained for at least five years from such a  
   hearing and may include a transcript,  recording  or  other  appropriate  
   record;  and  (iii) access to at least one level of appeal of a determi - 
   nation before a panel, which may include one or more  students,  that  is  
   fair  and  impartial and does not include individuals with a conflict of  
   interest. In order to effectuate an appeal, a respondent  and  reporting  
   individual in such cases shall receive written notice of the findings of  
   fact,  the  decision  and the sanction, if any, as well as the rationale  
   for the decision and sanction. In such cases, any rights provided  to  a  
   reporting  individual must be similarly provided to a respondent and any  
   rights provided to a respondent must be similarly provided to a  report - 
   ing individual.  
     c.  Throughout  proceedings  involving  such  an  accusation of sexual  
   assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual  activ - 
   ity  that  may  otherwise violate the ins titution's code of conduct, the  
   right: 
     i. For the respondent, accused, and reporting individual to be  accom - 
   panied  by  an  advisor  of choice who may assist and advise a reporting  
   individual, accused, or respondent throughout the  judicial   or  conduct  
   process including during all meetings and hearings related to such proc - 
   ess. Rules for participation of such advisor shall be established in the  
   code of conduct.  
     ii.  To  a  prompt response to any complaint and to have the comp laint 
   investigated and adjudicated  in  an  impartial,  timely,  and  thorough  
   manner by individuals who receive annual training in conducting investi - 
   gations  of  sexual  violence,  the effects of trauma, impartiality, the  
   rights of the respo ndent, including the right to a presumption that  the  
   respondent  is  "not  responsible"  until a finding of responsibility is  
   made pursuant to the provisions of this article  and  the  institution's  12 
 
   policies  and procedures, and other issues including, but not limited to  
   domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or sexual assault.  
     iii. To an investigation and  process  that  is  fair,  impartial  and  
   provides a meaningful opportunity to be heard, and that is not conducted  
   by individuals with a conflict of interest.  
     iv.  To have the institution's judicial or conduct process run concur - 
   rently with a criminal justice investigation and proceeding, except  for  
   temporary  delays  as requested by external municipal entities while law  
   enforcement gathers evidence. Temporary delays should not last more than  
   ten days except when law enforcement specifically requests and justifies  
   a longer delay.  
     v. To review and present available  evidence  in  the  case  file,  or  
   otherwise  in the possession or control of the institution, and relevant  
   to the conduct case, consistent with  institution  policies  and  proce - 
   dures. 
     vi.  To exclude their own prior sexual history with persons other than  
   the other party in the judicial or conduct process or their  own  mental  
   CHAP. 76                           8  
  
   health  diagnosis  and/or  treatment  from admittance in the institution  
   disciplinary stage that  determines  responsibility.  Past  finding s  of 
   domestic  violence,  dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault may be  
   admissible in the disciplinary stage that determines sanction.  
     vii.  To  receive  written  or  electronic notice, provided in advance  
   pursuant to the college or university policy and  reasonable  under  the  
   circumstances,  of  any  meeting they are required to or are eligible to  
   attend, of the specific  rule,  rules  or  laws  alleged  to  have  been  
   violated  and  in what manner, and the sanction or sanc tions that may be  
   imposed on the respondent based upon the  outcome  of  the  judicial  or  
   conduct  process,  at which time the designated hearing or investigatory  
   officer or panel shall provide a written statement detailing the factual  
   findings supporting the determination and the rationale for the sanction  13 
 
   imposed.  
     viii. To make an impact statement during the point of  the  proceeding  
   where the decision maker is deliberating on appropriate sanctions.  
     ix.  To simultaneous (among  the parties) written or electronic notifi - 
   cation of the outcome of a judicial or conduct  process,  including  the  
   sanction or sanctions.  
     x.  To be informed of the sanction or sanctions that may be imposed on  
   the respondent based upon the o utcome of the judicial or conduct process  
   and the rationale for the actual sanction imposed.  
     xi. To choose whether to disclose or discuss the outcome of a  conduct  
   or judicial process.  
     xii. To have all information obtained during the course  of the conduct  
   or  judicial  process be protected from public release until the appeals  
   panel makes a final determination unless otherwise required by law.  
     6. For crimes of  violence,  including,  but  not  limited  to  sexual  
   violence,  def ined as crimes that meet the reporting requirements pursu - 
   ant   to   the   federal   Clery   Act   established   in   20    U.S.C.  
   1092(f)(1)(F)(i)(I) -(VIII),  institutions  shall  make a notation on the  
   transcript of students found responsible after a  conduct  process  that  
   they  were  "suspended  after  a finding of responsibility for a code of  
   conduct violation" or "expelled after a finding of responsibility for  a  
   code  of  conduct  violation." For the respondent who withdraws from the 
   institution while such conduct charges  are  pending,  and  declines  to  
   complete the disciplinary process, institutions shall make a notation on  
   the transcript of such students that they "withdrew with conduct charges  
   pending."   Each  ins titution  shall  publish  a  policy  on  transcript  
   notations and appeals seeking removal of a  transcript  notation  for  a  
   suspension,  provided  that  such notation shall not be removed prior to  
   one year after conclusion of the suspension, whil e notations for  expul - 
   sion  shall  not be removed.   If a finding of responsibility is vacated  
   for any reason, any such transcript notation shall be removed.  
     7. Institutions that lack appropriate on -campus resources or  services  14 
 
   shall, to t he extent practicable, enter into memoranda of understanding,  
   agreements  or  collaborative partnerships with existing community -based 
   organizations, including rape -crisis centers and domestic violence shel - 
   ters and assistance organizations, to r efer students for  assistance  or  
   make  services  available  to  students,  including  counseling, health,  
   mental health, victim advocacy, and legal  assistance,  which  may  also  
   include resources and services for the respondent.  
     8. Institut ions shall, to the extent practicable, ensure that students  
   have  access  to  a sexual assault forensic examination by employing the  
   use of a sexual assault nurse examiner in their campus health center  or  
                                      9                            CHAP. 76  
  
   entering into memoranda of understanding or agreements with at least one  
   local health care facility to provide such a service.  
     9.  Nothing  in this article shall be deemed to diminish the rights of  
   any member of the institution's community under any  applicable  collec - 
   tive bargaining agreement.   
     §  6445.  Campus  climate  assessments.  1.  Every  institution  shall  
   conduct, no less than every other year, a campus climate  assessment  to  
   ascertain  general  awareness  and  knowledge  of the provisions of this  
   article, including student experience with and  knowledge  of  reporting  
   and college adjudicatory processes, which shall be developed using stan - 
   dard and commonly recogni zed research methods.  
     2. The assessment shall include questions covering, but not be limited  
   to, the following:  
     a. the Title IX Coordinator's role;  
     b. campus policies and procedures addressing sexual assault;  
     c.  how and where to rep ort domestic violence, dating violence, stalk - 
   ing or sexual assault as a victim, survivor or witness;  
     d. the availability of resources on and  off  campus,  such  as  coun - 
   seling, health and academic assistance;  
     e.  the  prevalence  of  victimization  and  perpetration  of domestic  15 
 
   violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault on and off campus  
   during a set time period;  
     f. bystander attitudes and behavior;  
     g. whether reporting individuals disclosed to the  institu tion  and/or  
   law  enforcement,  experiences with reporting and institution processes,  
   and reasons why they did or did not report;  
     h. the general awareness of the difference, if any, between the insti - 
   tution's policies and the penal law; and  
     i. general awareness of the definition of affirmative consent.  
     3. Every institution shall take steps to ensure that answers  to  such  
   assessments  remain  anonymous  and  that  no  individual is identified.  
   Institutions shall publish result s  of  the  surveys  on  their  website  
   provided  that  no  personally  identifiable  information or information  
   which can reasonably lead a reader to identify an  individual  shall  be  
   shared. 
     4.  Information  discovered  or produced as a re sult of complying with  
   this section shall not be subject to discovery or admitted into evidence  
   in any federal  or  state  court  proceeding  or  considered  for  other  
   purposes in any action for damages brought by a private party against an  
   institution,  unless,  in the discretion of the court, any such informa - 
   tion is deemed to be material to the underlying claim or defense.  
     § 6446. Options for confidential disclosure.  1.  In  accordance  with  
   this  article, every institution shal l ensure that reporting individuals  
   have the following:  
     a. Information regarding privileged and  confidential  resources  they  
   may  contact  regarding  domestic violence, dating violence, stalking or  
   sexual assault;  
     b. Information about counselors and advocates they may contact regard - 
   ing domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual assault;  
     c. A plain language explanation of confidentiality which shall,  at  a  
   minimum,  include  the  following provision: "Even {Ins titution} offices  
   and employees who cannot guarantee confidentiality  will  maintain  your  16 
 
   privacy  to the greatest extent possible. The information you provide to  
   a non-confidential resource will be relayed only as  necessary  for  the  
   Title IX Coordinator to investigate and/or seek a resolution.";  
   CHAP. 76                           10  
  
     d.  Information  about  how  the institution shall weigh a request for  
   confidentiality and respond to such a request. Such  information  shall,  
   at  a minimum, include that if a reporting individual discloses an inci - 
   dent to an institution employee who is responsible for responding to  or  
   reporting  domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  stalking,  or  sexual  
   assault but wishes to mainta in confidentiality or does  not  consent  to  
   the  institution's  request  to  initiate an investigation, the Title IX  
   Coordinator must weigh the request against the institution's  obligation  
   to provide a safe, non -discriminatory environment for all members of its  
   community.  The  institution shall assist with academic, housing, trans - 
   portation, employment, and other reasonable and available accommodations  
   regardless of reporting choices;  
     e. Information about public awareness and ad vocacy  events,  including  
   guarantees  that if an individual discloses information through a public  
   awareness event such as candlelight vigils, protests,  or  other  public  
   event,  the institution is not obligated to begin an investigation based  
   on such information. The institution may use the information provided at  
   such an event  to  inform  its  efforts  for  additional  education  and  
   prevention efforts;  
     f.  Information  about  existing  and available methods to anonymously  
   disclose including, but not limited to information on relevant confiden - 
   tial hotlines provided by New York  state  agencies  and  not -for-profit 
   entities;  
     g.  Information regarding institutional crime reporting including, but  
   not limited to:    reports  of  certain  crimes  occurring  in  specific  
   geographic  locations that shall be included in the institution's annual  
   security report pursuant to the Clery Act,  20  U.S.C.  1092(f),  in  an  17 
 
   anonymized manner that identifies neither the specifics of the crime nor  
   the  identity of the reporting individual; that the institution is obli - 
   gated to issue timely warnings of crimes enumerated  in  the  Clery  Act  
   occurring within relevant geography that represent a serious or continu - 
   ing  threat  to  students  and  employees, except in those circumstances  
   where issuing such a warning  may  compromise  current  law  enforcement  
   efforts  or  when  the  warning  itself  could  potentially identify the  
   reporting individual; that  a reporting individual shall not  be  identi - 
   fied in a timely warning; that the Family Educational Rights and Privacy  
   Act,  20  U.S.C.  1232g,  allows  institutions to share information with  
   parents when i. there is a health or safety emergency,  or ii.  when  the  
   student  is a dependent on either parent's prior year federal income tax  
   return; and that generally, the institution shall not share  information  
   about a report of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or sexu - 
   al assault with parents without the permission of the reporting individ - 
   ual. 
     2.  The  institution  may  take  proactive  steps, such as training or  
   awareness efforts, to combat domestic violence, dating violence,  stalk - 
   ing  or sexual assault in a general way that does not identify those who  
   disclose or the information disclosed.  
     3. If the institution determines that an investigation is required, it  
   shall notify the reporting individuals  and  take  immediate  action  as  
   necessary to  protect and assist them.  
     4.  The  institution  should  seek  consent from reporting individuals  
   prior to conducting an investigation. Declining to consent to an  inves - 
   tigation  shall  be  honored  unless  the institution determines in good  
   faith that failure to investigate does not adequately mitigate a  poten - 
   tial  risk  of  harm to the reporting individual or other members of the  
   community.  Honoring such a request may limit the institution's  ability  
                                      11                           CHAP. 76  
  
   to meaningfully investigate and pursue conduct action against an accused  18 
 
   individual.  Factors  used  to determine whether to honor such a request  
   include, but are not limited to:  
     a.  Whether  th e  accused  has  a  history of violent behavior or is a  
   repeat offender;  
     b. Whether the incident represents escalation in unlawful  conduct  on  
   behalf of the accused from previously noted behavior;  
     c.  The increased risk that the accused wi ll commit additional acts of  
   violence;  
     d. Whether the accused used a weapon or force;  
     e. Whether the reporting individual is a minor; and  
     f. Whether the institution possesses other means  to  obtain  evidence  
   such  as  security  footag e, and whether available information reveals a  
   pattern of perpetration at a given location or by a particular group.  
     § 6447. Student onboarding and ongoing education. 1. Every institution  
   shall adopt a comprehensive student  onboarding  and  ongoing  education  
   campaign  to educate members of the institution's community about domes - 
   tic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault, in  compli - 
   ance with applicable federal laws, including the Clery Act as amended by  
   the  Violence  Against  Women  Act  reauthorization  of  2013, 20 U.S.C.  
   1092(f).  
     2. Included in this campaign shall  be  a  requirement  that  all  new  
   first-year  and  transfer  students  shall,  during  the course of their  
   onboarding to their re spective  institution,  receive  training  on  the  
   following  topics, using a method and manner appropriate to the institu - 
   tional culture of each institution:  
     a. The institution prohibits sexual  and  interpersonal  violence  and  
   will offer resources to any victims and survivors of such violence while  
   taking  administrative and conduct action regarding any accused individ - 
   ual within the jurisdiction of the institution;  
     b. Relevant definitions including, but not limited to, the def initions  
   of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking,  confi - 
   dentiality, privacy, and consent;  19 
 
     c.  Policies apply equally to all students regardless of sexual orien - 
   tation, gender identity, or gender expression;  
     d. The role of the Title IX Coordinator, university police  or  campus  
   security,  and  other  relevant  offices that address domestic violence,  
   dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault prevention and response;  
     e. Awareness of violence, its imp act  on  victims  and  survivors  and  
   their friends and family, and its long -term impact;  
     f.  Bystander  intervention  and  the  importance  of taking action to  
   prevent violence when one can safely do so;  
     g. Risk assessment and reduction including, but not limited to,  steps  
   that  potential  victims, perpetrators, and bystanders can take to lower  
   the incidence of violations, which may  contain  information  about  the  
   dangers  of  drug and alcohol use, including underage drinking and binge  
   drinking, involuntary consumption of incapacitating drugs and the danger  
   of mislabeled drugs and alcohol, the importance  of  communication  with  
   trusted  friends  and  family  whether  on campus or off campus, and the  
   availability of  institution officials who can answer general or specific  
   questions about risk reduction; and  
     h. Consequences and sanctions for individuals who commit these  crimes  
   and code of conduct violations.  
     3.  Every institution shall train all new s tudents, whether first -year 
   or transfer, undergraduate, graduate, or professional.  
   CHAP. 76                           12  
  
     4. Every institution shall use multiple methods  to  educate  students  
   about  violence  prevention  and  shall  share  information  on domestic  
   violence, dating violence, stalking and sexual assault  prevention  with  
   parents of enrolling students.  
     5.  Every institution shall offer to all students general and specific  
   training in domestic violence,  dating  vi olence,  stalking  and  sexual  
   assault  prevention  and shall conduct a campaign that complies with the  
   Violence Against Women Act, 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), to  educate  the  student  20 
 
   population.  They  shall,  as  appropriate,  provide  or expand specif ic 
   training to include groups such as international students, students that  
   are also employees, leaders and officers  of  registered  or  recognized  
   student  organizations, and online and distance education students. They  
   shall also provide specific training  to  members  of  groups  that  the  
   institution identifies as high -risk populations.  
     6.  Every institution shall require that each student leader and offi - 
   cer of student organizations recognized by or registered with the insti - 
   tution, as  well  as  those  seeking  recognition  by  the  institution,  
   complete  training  on  domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or  
   sexual assault prevention prior to receiving  recognition  or  registra - 
   tion,  and  each  insti tution  shall  require  that each student -athlete 
   complete training on domestic violence, dating  violence,  stalking,  or  
   sexual  assault  prevention  prior  to  participating in intercollegiate  
   athletic competition.  
     7. Every institution  must  regularly  assess  programs  and  policies  
   established  pursuant  to  this  article  to determine effectiveness and  
   relevance for students.  
     § 6448. Privacy in legal challenges.  Pursuant to subdivision  (i)  of  
   rule  three thousand sixt een of the civil practice law and rules, in any  
   proceeding brought against an institution which seeks to vacate or modi - 
   fy a finding that a student was  responsible  for  violating  an  insti - 
   tution's  rules  regarding a violation covered by thi s article, the name  
   and  identifying  biographical  information  of  any  student  shall  be  
   presumptively  confidential  and  shall not be included in the pleadings  
   and other papers from such proceeding absent a waiver or cause shown  as  
   determined  by  the  court.   Such witnesses shall be identified only as  
   numbered witnesses. If such a name or identifying biographical  informa - 
   tion  appears  in  a  pleading  or paper filed in such a proceeding, the  
   court, absent such a waiver or cause shown, shall direct  the  clerk  of  
   the  court  to redact such name and identifying biographical information  
   and so advise the parties.  21 
 
     § 6449. Reporting aggregate data to the  department.  1.  Institutions  
   shall  annually report to the  department the following information about  
   reports of domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  stalking  and  sexual  
   assault:  
     a.  The  number  of  such incidents that were reported to the Title IX  
   Coordinator.  
     b. Of those incidents in pa ragraph a of this subdivision,  the  number  
   of  reporting  individuals  who  sought  the  institution's  judicial or  
   conduct process.  
     c. Of those reporting individuals in paragraph b of this  subdivision,  
   the  number  of  cases  processed  th rough the institution's judicial or  
   conduct process.  
     d. Of those cases in paragraph c of this subdivision,  the  number  of  
   respondents  who  were found responsible through the institution's judi - 
   cial or conduct process.  
                                      13                           CHAP. 76  
  
     e. Of those cases in paragraph c of this subdivision,  the  number  of  
   respondents  who  were  found  not responsible through the institution's  
   judicial or conduct process.  
     f. A desc ription of the final sanctions imposed by the institution for  
   each  incident for which a respondent was found responsible, as provided  
   in paragraph d of this subdivision, through the  institution's  judicial  
   or conduct process.  
     g.  The number  of cases in the institution's judicial or conduct proc - 
   ess that were closed prior to a final determination after the respondent  
   withdrew from the institution and declined to complete the  disciplinary  
   process.  
     h.  The number of cases in the  institution's judicial or conduct proc - 
   ess that were closed because the complaint was withdrawn by the  report - 
   ing individual prior to a final determination.  
     2.  The department shall create a reporting mechanism for institutions  22 
 
   to efficie ntly and uniformly provide the information outlined in  subdi - 
   vision one of this section.  
     3.  The  department shall not release the information, as provided for  
   in this section, if it would compromise the confidentiality of reporting  
   individuals or any other party in the best judgment of the department.  
     4. Within one year of the effective date of this article, the  depart - 
   ment  shall  issue regulations in consultation with representatives from  
   the state university of New York,  ci ty  university  of  New  York,  and  
   private  and independent colleges and universities, and within two years  
   of the effective date of this  article  the  department  shall  issue  a  
   report  to  the  governor,  the  temporary  president of the sena te, the 
   speaker of the assembly and the chairs of the higher  education  commit - 
   tees  in  each  house  regarding  the  data  collected  pursuant to this  
   section.  
     § 2. Rule 3016 of the civil practice  law  and  rules  is  amended  by  
   adding a new subdivision (i) to read as follows:  
     (i)  Privacy of name in certain legal challenges to college/university  
   disciplinary findings. In any proceeding brought against  a  college  or  
   university  that  is chartered by the regents or incorporated by special  
   act of the legislature, which proceeding seeks to  vacate  or  modify  a  
   finding  that  a  student  was responsible for a violation of college or  
   university rules regarding a violation covered by  article  one  hundred  
   twenty-nine-B  of  the education law, the name and identifying biograph - 
   ical information of any student shall be presumptively confidential  and  
   shall  not  be  included  in  the  pleadings  and other papers from such  
   proceeding absent a waiver or  cause shown as determined  by  the  court.  
   Such witnesses shall be identified only as numbered witnesses. If such a  
   name  or  identifying  biographical information appears in a pleading or  
   paper filed in such a proceeding, the court, absent  such   a  waiver  or  
   cause shown, shall direct the clerk of the court to redact such name and  
   identifying biographical information and so advise the parties.  
     §  3. The executive law is amended by adding a new section 232 to read  23 
 
   as follows:  
     § 232. Sexual assault victims unit. There is hereby established within  
   the division of state police the  sexual  assault  victims  unit,  which  
   shall  be  a  specialized unit having advanced training in responding to  
   sexual assaults, including camp us sexual assaults, and  related  crimes.  
   The  sexual  assault victims unit shall perform such tasks as determined  
   by the superintendent, which shall include but not be limited to provid - 
   ing assistance, including forensic support services, to campus police or  
   CHAP. 76                           14  
  
   local police or sheriff's departments, and providing training to college  
   campus communities.  
     §   4.   The  sum  of  four  million  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  
   ($4,500,000) is hereby appropriated to the division of state police  out  
   of any moneys in the state treasury in the general fund to the credit of  
   the  state  purposes acco unt, not otherwise appropriated, and made imme - 
   diately available, for the purpose of carrying  out  the  provisions  of  
   section  232 of the executive law as added by section three of this act.  
   Such moneys shall be payable on the audit and warrant  of the comptroller  
   on vouchers certified or approved by  the  director  of  the  budget  as  
   submitted by the superintendent of state police in the manner prescribed  
   by law. 
     §   5.   The  sum  of  four  million  five  hundred  thousand  dolla rs 
   ($4,500,000) is hereby appropriated to miscellaneous aid  to  localities  
   out of any moneys in the state treasury in the general fund to the cred - 
   it of the local assistance account, not otherwise appropriated, and made  
   immediately available,  for services and expenses of rape crisis centers,  
   including  but  not limited to prevention, education and victim services  
   on college campuses in the state. Notwithstanding any law to the contra - 
   ry, the office of victim services and the  departm ent  of  health  shall  
   administer the program and allocate funds pursuant to a plan approved by  
   the  director  of the budget. Such allocation methodology shall be based  24 
 
   in part on  the  following  factors:  certification  status,  number  of  
   programs,  and  regional  diversity.  Funds  hereby  appropriated may be  
   transferred or suballocated to any state department  or  agency.    Such  
   moneys  shall  be payable on the audit and warrant of the comptroller on  
   vouchers certified or approved by the director  of  the  budget  in  the  
   manner prescribed by law.  
     §  6.  The sum of one million dollars ($1,000,000) is hereby appropri - 
   ated to miscellaneous aid to localities out of any moneys in  the  state  
   treasury  in  the  general  fund  to  the credit of the local assistance  
   account, not otherwise appropriated, and made immediately available, for  
   services and  expenses  of  college  campuses  for  training  and  other  
   expenses  related  to  i mplementation  of article 129 -b of the education  
   law, pursuant to a plan administered and approved by the director of the  
   budget. Funds hereby appropriated may be transferred or suballocated  to  
   any  state  department  or  agency.  Such moneys sha ll be payable on the  
   audit and warrant of the comptroller on vouchers certified  or  approved  
   by the director of the budget in the manner prescribed by law.  
     §  7.  This  act shall take effect immediately; provided that sections  
   one, two and t hree of this act shall take effect on  the  ninetieth  day  
   after  it shall have become a law, provided, however, that sections 6445  
   and 6449 of article 129 -B of the education law, as added by section  one  
   of this act, shall take effect one year af ter it shall have become law.  
  
   The Legislature of the STATE OF NEW YORK ss:  
     Pursuant  to  the authority vested in us by section 70 -b of the Public  
   Officers Law, we hereby jointly certify that  this  slip  copy  of  this  
   session law was print ed under our direction and, in accordance with such  
   section, is entitled to be read into evidence.  
  
      JOHN J. FLANAGAN                                   CARL E. HEASTIE  
   Temporary  President  of the Senate                Speaker of the Assembly  
 