Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator - Texas Workforce Commission
Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website.
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Submit unemployment documents for claimants only
Submit unemployment documents for employers only
Submit documents for reporting unemployment fraud
Unemployment Benefits Earnings Verification
Employer Response to Notice of Application for Unemployment Benefits
Cash Draw & Monthly Expenditure Report System (CDERS)
Learner Outcome Tracking System (LOTS)
Licensed Career Schools & Colleges Directory
Texas Educating Adults Management System (TEAMS)
Find Resources for Businesses & Employers
Learn about Employment Law, Discrimination, Wages & Child Labor
Access Texas Labor Market Information
Learn about Unemployment Benefits Fraud & Identity Fraud
Vocational Rehabilitation Business Relations
Adult Education & Literacy Advisory Committee
Business Enterprises of Texas Elected Committee of Managers
Jobs & Education for Texans Advisory Board
Purchasing from People with Disabilities Advisory Committee
Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator
Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator
This page contains comprehensive information about the essential role of the Title IX Coordinator within the Vocational Rehabilitation framework.
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination in education programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance. It states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." Title IX protects persons from discrimination while participating within the scope of an education program or activity. Title IX Personnel TrainingThis page contains training materials for Title IX Coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, and any person who facilitates an informal resolution process.Association of Title IX Administrators (ATIXA) TrainingThompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Video PlaylistThompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - MaterialsOffice for Civil Rights Title IX Webinars - Video PlaylistThese materials are posted publicly in compliance with 34 CRF Part 106.45(b)(10)(i)(D) of the 2020 Title IX regulations.
Contact Information:Erin HumphreysPhone: 512-367-2397Email: TitleIX@twc.texas.gov
Contact Information:Erin Humphreys (Interim)Phone: 512-367-2397Email: CCRCTitleIX@twc.texas.gov
Title IX Procedure Manual - Updated 8/15/2023
Criss Cole Student Handbook - Regular Print - Updated 10/04/2023
Criss Cole Student Handbook - Large Print - Updated 10/04/2023
Criss Cole Rehabilitation Center (CCRC) Policy Manual - Updated 10/04/2023
CCRC Title IX LiaisonErin Humphreys (Interim) 512-367-2397 EmailCCRCTitleIX@twc.texas.gov  Mailing Address    4800 North Lamar Blvd  Austin, TX 78756  United States
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer/Program. Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities. Deaf, hard-of-hearing or speech-impaired customers may contact TWC through the relay service provider of their choice.  For questions, compliments or complaints, call 800-628-5115.
Transparency: State Revenue & Spending
Click here to visit twitterClick here to visit youtubeClick here to visit facebookClick here to visit linkedin
Copyright © Texas Workforce Commission. All rights reserved.SitemapPoliciesEqual Opportunity is the lawReport Fraud: 800-252-3642
Chat with us Speak with our Virtual AssistantArrow up icon for opening chat window for TWC virtual agent
Help Desk
Association of Title IX Administrators (ATIXA) Training
Learn from top practitioners through in-person and online training and certifications.
Confirm your attendance during your training and access all training and event materials here.
ATIXA is now accepting scholarship applications for 2024 virtual courses.
Access your upcoming trainings and events, member materials, discounts, certifications, and more.
The home for Title IX coordinators, investigators, and administrators.
Quickly access information on some of the most in-demand ATIXA tools.
The ATIXA Member Library is a searchable and comprehensive listing of all items shared to, and posted by ATIXA included in our membership levels.
Learn more about ATIXA's role in policy matters that impact the field.
Learn about ATIXA's mentoring program and apply to be a Mentor or Mentee.
Come together with your fellow Title IX community to always continue learning.
Confirm your attendance and access everything you need for your ATIXA training or event here.
Join us for the 2024 Winter Symposium in Orlando, FL from January 21-26, 2024, to engage with colleagues and faculty while receiving valuable in-person training and certification.
ATIXA brings Title IX administrators together to promote gender equality.
Upload onto your Title IX website to show the training provided by ATIXA.
If you don’t have a website, you will have to make hard copies of these materials available for inspection. ATIXA will not be providing hardcopies of any items on this page.
Alternatively, you may link to this page; however, OCR may deem this insufficient. Training attendees are not authorized to publicly post ATIXA materials in any other way.
34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10) requires all ATIXA training materials to be posted publicly. This site facilitates the centralization of hundreds of materials developed by and owned by ATIXA, which can be linked to by individual colleges and schools.
The materials posted to this site are proprietary and are copyrighted. Those copyrights are registered with the Library of Congress. The legal penalties for copyright infringement range from $200 to $150,000 for each work infringed, and the infringer pays for all attorneys’ fees and court costs.
Your right is a right of inspection and review of the materials on this site, only. No other right is granted beyond viewing. You are not authorized to copy, use, adapt, save, repost, share publicly, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for training, or for any commercial purpose. Any such use will result in damages equivalent to the full-per-head registration costs to the applicable ATIXA training, plus damages for reputational harm to ATIXA, in addition to any copyright infringement fines and/or penalties.
Proceeding to use and access the content on this page demonstrates your acceptance and understanding of these terms and conditions. To contact ATIXA with questions about any of the contents of this site, please email events@atixa.org.
The Title IX Regulations, 34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10), require all Recipients to post training slides used to satisfy the Title IX Regulations’ training requirements to your organization’s website. Here is some information you may want to have about such public website postings:
Recipients are required to post the most recent Title IX team member training materials to their organization’s website by August 14, 2020.
Only the most recent version of training materials is required to be posted, and websites should be updated each time a training is completed.
You should maintain an internal archive of all historical Title IX team training materials for a period of seven years beginning August 14, 2020.
Materials are posted from January 1, 2018, to the present and are regularly updated.
Training materials are listed below by type of certification or training and by year, but not by location.
ATIXA cannot guarantee that any materials on this site were seen by any particular trainee.
ATIXA Certification refers to attendance at a qualifying event; ATIXA cannot speak to individual attendees’ knowledge, expertise, or command of the material. Each attendee is responsible for the learning outcomes of any training.
There is nothing that would stop an individual from copying materials from this site and claiming they have attended training. As such, ATIXA makes no guarantees regarding representation or posting of its content with respect to any level of understanding, competence, comprehension, or even attendance.
All post-August 14, 2020, ATIXA certification registrants should use this page to obtain their publicly posted training materials.
Understand that any member of the public can access these materials, and some will be searching for evidence that members or attendees have received training that is biased or biasing. Although ATIXA materials are neutral, encourage impartiality (or multi-partiality), and a fair evaluation of all evidence, you should be careful about attending training from organizations that may be biased or that have political agendas. Also, be careful about some trauma-informed training organizations whose content is not well-grounded in empirical scientific research or data.
If you are a member of the public, your right is a right of inspection and review of the materials on this site, only. No other right is granted beyond viewing. You are not authorized to copy, use, adapt, save, repost, share publicly, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for training, or for any commercial purpose.
If you have received training from ATIXA and need to post your training slides to comply with the Title IX regulations, you are granted the right to repost the slides on this site for completed training on your organization’s website for compliance purposes, only. ATIXA grants no other to use, copy, adapt, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for external training, or for any commercial purpose. Any such use will result in damages equivalent to the full, per-head registration costs to the applicable ATIXA training, plus damages for reputational harm to ATIXA, in addition to any copyright infringement fines and/or penalties.
ATIXA’s public certification trainings are posted below, including the slides for all such trainings. The materials may not be dated or labeled with your specific training but are materially the same as the materials used and provided to you during your training. The order of some slides may change over time, as may slight variations to content, but the main substance is unchanged.
Click on the hyperlinked slides for your completed ATIXA training below.Once opened, download the PDF slides to your computer’s desktop.Upload onto your Title IX website to show the training provided by ATIXA.
If you don’t have a website, you will have to make hard copies of these materials available for inspection. ATIXA will not be providing hard copies of any items on this page.
Alternatively, you may link to this page; however, OCR may deem this insufficient. Training attendees are not authorized to publicly post ATIXA materials in any other way.
All ATIXA Proprietary Training Materials Are Covered By The Following Limited License and Copyright
By purchasing, receiving, and/or using ATIXA materials, you agree to accept this limited license and become a licensee of proprietary and copyrighted ATIXA-owned materials. The licensee accepts all terms and conditions of this license and agrees to abide by all provisions. No other rights are provided, and all other rights are reserved. These materials are proprietary and are licensed to the licensee only, for their use. This license permits the licensee to use the materials personally and/or internally to the licensee’s organization for training purposes, only. If these materials are used to train Title IX personnel, they are subject to 34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10), requiring all training materials to be publicly posted on a Recipient’s website. If you have lawfully obtained ATIXA materials by registering for an ATIXA training, you are licensed to use the materials provided for that training. Licensees may download and post a PDF version of training materials for their completed training to their organizational website to comply with federal regulations.
You are not authorized to copy or adapt these materials without explicit written permission from ATIXA. No one may remove this license language from any version of ATIXA materials. Licensees will receive a link to their materials from ATIXA. That link, or links to the materials on that page only, may be posted to the licensee’s website for purposes of permitting public access to the materials for review/inspection, only. Should any non-licensee post these materials to a public website, ATIXA will send a letter instructing the licensee to immediately remove the content from the public website upon penalty of copyright violation. These materials may not be used for any commercial purpose except by ATIXA.
If you would like to request a transcript of the events that you have attended please send an email to transcripts@requests.atixa.org with the subject line “My Transcript”. A copy of your transcript will be emailed to you automatically.
If you would like to request the transcript for someone else, please send an email to transcripts@requests.atixa.org with the subject line the email address of the person who’s transcript you would like to request. Please allow up to 1 business day for these requests to be processed.
We used an item not listed to create our forms, policies, and procedures; how do I post this?
You don’t. These are not trainings, or training materials and therefore not expected to post them. You do not have permission from ATIXA to post these copyrighted materials.
ATIXA determined that materials older than that would not address current regulations-based training requirements. Certifications older than two-years are no longer in good standing with ATIXA.
How quickly do I need to post the training materials once I take a training?
The regulations do not specify, they only state that all trainings must be posted, however recently OCR Investigations have shown the need to post the training materials on your website or provide a hard copy when asked.
I want to post the actual video recording (where applicable), how do I do this?
The regulations did not specify that recordings be posted, only training materials. Thus, ATIXA has provided training materials, and does not grant permission for the posting of any recordings at this time.
ATIXA has posted generic slide sets for the most part, as a training content does not vary substantially from training to training.
I want to list every training I have ever taken with ATIXA, can you provide this to me?
Training materials are only required to be posted for the time period starting August 14, 2020 and forward. There is no requirement to post trainings taken prior to this date. However, as there are people within their 2-year ATIXA Certification time-period, we have provided everything from 2018 to present. Your event transcript on your My ATIXA page will provide a list of all trainings.
You can post the slides provided on your ATIXA Event Lobby that was provided to you at the time of training.
January-June 2018_Coordinator Five_Bias & Cultural Competencies Materials
January-June 2018_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors, & MOUs Materials
January-June 2018_Title IX Coordinator & Administrator Level Four: Trainer Training: Advocacy, Prevention & Trauma
January-June 2018_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
July-December 2018_Climate Surveys_VAWA Compliance_Strategic Prevention Materials
July-December 2018_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
July-December 2018_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
July-December 2018_Investigator Three A_Sexual Violence Case Processing & Resolution Materials
July-December 2018_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
January-June 2019_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
January-June 2019_Coordinator Three_Compliance and Case Management Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Five_Bias & Cultural Competencies Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Three_Compliance & Case Management Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
January-June 2020_Coordinator Three_Compliance and Case Management Materials
January-June 2020_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors, and MOUs Materials
July-December 2020_Coordinator Three_Compliance & Case Management Materials
July-December 2020_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
July-December 2020_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
January - June 2022_K-12 Coordinator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Civil Rights Investigator Four Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX Coordinator and Administrator Four: Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Coordinator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Civil Rights Investigator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 ADA/504 Coordinator Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Hearing Officer and Decision-Maker Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Civil Rights Investigator One: Foundations Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX for Healthcare Educators and Providers Training Materials
July-December 2022  NPRiMer: Preparing Your K-12 School or District for the 2023 Title IX Regulations Training Materials
July-December 2022 NPRiMer: Preparing for the 2023 Title IX Regulations for Higher Education Training Materials
July-December 2022 DEI Practitioner One: Foundations Training Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX Compliance and Athletics Training Materials
July-December 2022 Violence Risk Assessment with NABITA Endorsement Training Materials
July-December 2022 Civil Rights Investigator Three Training Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Investigation Report Writing Training Materials
January-June 2023_DEI Practitioner One Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_Gender Identity on Campus Workshop Course Materials
January-June 2023_Hearing Officer & Decision-Maker Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_Investigator Two: Advanced Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Coordinator One Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Coordinator Two Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Investigator One Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Investigator Two Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_NPRiMer for K-12 School Districts Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_ADA 504 Coordinator Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_ADA Section 504 Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Civil Rights Investigator One Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Civil Rights Investigator Four Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Gender Equity Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Informal Resolution Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Informal Resolution Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Intersections with ADA, Section 504, and IDEA for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Report Writing Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Report Writing for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Skills & Report Writing for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_K-12 Civil Rights Investigator One Foundations Course Materials
July-December 2023_K-12 Civil Rights Investigator Two Course Materials
July-December 2023_K-12 Investigation Report Writing Course Materials
July-December 2023_Live Hearings for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Making Supportive Measures Count Seminar Course Materials
July-December 2023_Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissals Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_NPRiMer for K-12 School Districts Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Sex-Based Harassment Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_Supporting Pregnancy, Parenting, & Related Conditions Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Compliance and Athletics Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Compliance and Athletics for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Compliance Essentials for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Coordinator Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Hearing Chairs Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Hearing Officer and Decision Maker Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Higher Education Decision-Maker Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Investigator Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Violence Risk Assessment with NABITA Endorsement Course Materials
January-June 2024_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials (Day One)
January-June 2024_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials (Day Two)
January-June 2024_NPRiMer Preparing Your K-12 School or District for the Pending Title IX Regulations Course Materials
January-June 2024_Title IX Compliance and Athletics for Higher Education Course Materials
Full Page Slides: Collegiate Athletics Focused: Compliance in COVID Times Webinar - July 31, 2020
Full Page Slides: K-12 Athletics Focused: Compliance in COVID Times Webinar - July 30, 2020
Hearing Panels and Decision-Makers: Briefing on the New Regulations Webinar Slides
New Title IX Regulations for Boards of Trustees and Cabinet-Level Administrators
Webinar- OCR Effective Commenting-Overview of the Notice and Comment Period
Webinar- Recent Due Process Rulings by the California Courts-What Do California Colleges and Universities Need to Know and Do?
September 19, 2022 - Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Materials
Common Report Writing Errors in Title IX & Civil Rights Investigations
All customized training materials from 2018-Present are included below. If you believe your organization’s customized training should be listed but is not, please contact our Custom Events Team at customevents@tngconsulting.com.
March 16, 2018_Community College of Spokane_Customized Sexual Harassment Training
April 23-24, 2018_The University System of Georgia_Customized Investigator 3 Training
May 10-11, 2018_American University of Beruit_Customized Investigator 2 Training
August 9, 2018_Long Beach City College_Customized Civil Rights Training
Sept 12-13, 2018_Angelo State University_Customized Panel Tune Up Training
October 2-3, 2018_University of Alaska Systems_Customized Investigator 2 Training
April, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_PreK-12 Title IX Certification Training
June 2019_Maryland Affinity Group_Customized Advanced Title IX Training
July, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_K-12 Investigations Training
September 11-13, 2019 - PreK-12 Title IX Administrator Certification Course Slides
September 16-17, 2019_West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine_Customized Civil Rights Investigator Training
September, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_PreK-12 Title IX Administrator and Investigator Training
October 16-17, 2019_Los Angeles Community College District_Customized ATIXA Training
November 12, 2019_Southern Oregon University_Customized Title IX Special Topics Training
May 28 and June 1, 2020_Naperville School District_Customized Title IX Overview Training
June 23, 2020_Bates College_Intersection of Title IX and BIT Training
July 15, 2020_Bates College_Final Title IX Regulations Overview Training
June 30-July 2, 2020_National University_Customized Title IX Training
July 21-22, 2020_Metropolitan Community College_Customized Title IX Training
August 5, 2020_Maryland Affinity Group_2020 Regulations Overview and Intersection with Maryland Law
September, 2020_Wilkes Barre University_Customized Hearing Officer Training
September 11 2020_Los Angeles Community College District Customized Title IX Training
September 23 and 24 2020_Los Angeles Community College District Customized Title IX Training
October 16, 2020_Ohio State University_Title IX Training Investigator & Decision-Makers
October 20, 2020_Ohio State University_Foundations of the First Amendment
October 28 and October 29, 2020_Naperville School District_K-12 Civil Rights InvestigatorTrainingJune 15 – 16, 2020 - Miami Dade County Public Schools_K-12 Coordinator Administrator Level 1 Cert Course
August 11, 2020_Rhode Island Department of Health_Custom Title IX Regulations Training
August 12-13, 2020_Rhode Island Department of Health_Custom Title IX Investigation Training
February 12-19, 2021_Stockton University Title IX Training: Roles, Responsibilities and  Regulations
March 11th 2021_Post University_ Title IX Hearing and Decision Maker Training
April 20th 2021_ Nebraska State College System_First Amendment Presentation Slides
April 20th 2021_ Nebraska State College System_Clery Act Presentation Slides
June 24th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Advisor Training
June 29th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_ Decision Maker Training
July 8th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Judicial Officer Training
July 9th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_ 504 Coordinator Training
August 11-12, 2021_West Ada School District_K-12 Administrators Training
July 8, 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Hearing Officer Training
August 13, 2021_Rhode Island Department of Health_Advanced Content Training
August 2, 2021_Transylvania University_Civil Rights Investigator Training
August 10th, 2021_The College of St. Scholastica_Decision-Maker Training
August 10th, 2021_The College of St. Scholastica_Investigation Report Training
Full Page Custom: Tredyffrin Easttown School District K-12 Training Course Slides
Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services_March 9, 2023_Full Page Slides
University of South Carolina - Columbia_Civil Rights Law Overview Slides
Paul Mitchell Advanced Education_Investigation and Documentation Slides
Laredo College_Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Workshop Slides
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University_Title IX Training Slides
The Association of Title IX Administrators is the nation’s leading membership organization for Title IX professionals. We promote, develop, and safeguard the practice of Title IX administration and those who work in this field.
Comprehensive, systems-level solutions for risk management designed by experts.
Support and professional development for behavioral intervention team members.
As part of our contined effort to improve our portal and user experience, we are currently requiring some users to reset their passwords.
Please click the button below to recieve an email with additional instructions for resetting your password.
Thompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Video Playlist
Thompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Materials
People Services                 Insights News & Events Diversity & Inclusion Women's Initiative Offices Firm Careers Subscribe Contact                     Home
Title IX Training Series Materials Below you will find links to the slide decks for each of the Title IX Training Sessions along with a document highlighting the changes that have been made to the rule. For inquiries regarding the Thompson Coburn Title IX Training Series, custom
training and simulations, or other issues relating to Title IX compliance, institutions are welcome to contact Scott Goldschmidt at sgoldschmidt@thompsoncoburn.com or Aaron Lacey at alacey@thompsoncoburn.com.Module 1 – An Introduction to Managing Title IX Sexual Harassment on Campus
Presented by Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron LaceyModule 2 – Formal Complaints of Title IX Sexual HarassmentPresented by Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron LaceyModule 3 – Title IX Investigations & Informal ResolutionsPresented by Susan Lorenc, Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron Lacey  Module 4 – Title IX HearingsPresented by Retired Judge Booker Shaw, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyModule 5 – Title IX DeterminationsPresented by Susan Lorenc, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyModule 6 – Title IX AppealsPresented by Retired Judge Booker Shaw, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyAdditional MaterialsTitle IX ComparisonTitle IX Compliance ChecklistTitle IX Compliance Training Series VideosThese materials are intended for information only and should not be considered legal advice. If you desire legal advice for a particular situation, you should consult an attorney.
Client Access  Disclaimers  Contact  Privacy  TC Remote Attorney Advertising     Chicago  Dallas  Los Angeles  New York  Southern Illinois  St. Louis  Washington, D.C.              Please read before continuing    NOTICE.
Office for Civil Rights Title IX Webinars - Video Playlist
