Page 1 of 6 
 Frequently Asked Questions – THECB Title IX Training  
SB 212 and HB  1735, 86th Legislature 
Texas Education Code, Chapter 51, Subchapters E -2 and E -3 
As of April 13, 2020 
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) adopted  Title IX t raining materials and 
administrative reporting templates1 from the Title IX Training Advisory Committee (“Committee”) in 
accordance with  SB 212 & HB 1735, passed by  the 86th Texas Legislative and signed into law last year. 
Since then, the THECB has received questions related to the laws and how to  apply  them  to Title IX -
related institutional policies, processes, and procedures. The following FAQ’s are based on the questions 
received by  the THECB .  The responses have been reviewed, revised and approved by  the Committee.  
 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -  WHO MUST REPORT AN INCIDENT OF SEXUAL 
MISCONDUCT  
 
1. Are university peace officers  required to report to the Title IX Coordinator? If yes, when and 
under what circumstances?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes. There is no reporting exemption in the Texas statute for certified peace officers. Peace 
officers are required to promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator when they witness or receive information (e.g. police report) that the peace officer “ reasonably believe s
2 constitutes sexual 
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking”3. However, Title IX coordinators should be 
sensitive to cases involving a potential or active criminal investigation and temporarily delay actions that 
may impede or prejudice a criminal investigation and rights of the parties involved.  
 
2. What if two employees receive the same information about an alleged incident of  reportable 
conduct  (e.g. sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking) , and only one of the 
employees submits a report to the Title IX Coordinator ? Is the “non- reporting”  employee  
automatically investigated for allegedly failing to report  to the Title IX Coordinator?  
 
ANSWER:  No.  When it is alleged that  an employee  did  not promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator , 
the Title IX Coordinator should review the initial report submitted on the alleged incident and any 
relevant  information of the alleged failure to report, u sing a “reasonable person standard” to determine 
if a referral should be made to proper authoritie s for possible prosecution.   The Title IX Coordinator’s 
review should consider circumstances in which two or more employees receive the information 
simultaneously or in the course of providing services for which multiple reports are not required by law, 
e.g.  counsel ing center receptionist, case worker, and counselor.   
 
 
1 THECB Title IX Training  
2 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu . Code, Section 51.252(a)  
3 See Definitions in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.251  Page 2 of 6 
 3. Financial aid staff  receive financial aid applications, appeal requests, and other types of financial 
aid information in which students might disclose “sexual trauma” or other alleged inci dents of 
reportable conduct as an explanation for financial need, financial aid appeals, etc. A re financial 
aid staff  required to report to the Title IX Coordinator ?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes. The law applies  to financial aid employees in the course and scope of employment4 of 
postsecondary educational institutions.  Such employees should be properly trained to understand and 
act upon observing or receiving information on a reportable incident.   
4. What if a student or employee discloses an alleged incident of repo rtable conduct to an 
employee for purposes other than directly reporting an incident? Are there “ extenuating 
circumstances ” that would exempt an employee from being required to report to the Title IX 
Coordinator?  
ANSWER:  No.  The law requires employees to  promptly report reportable incidents to the Title IX 
Coordinator.   Students are not required to report incidents under the law.  
5. Are university clergypersons  exempt from being required to report to the Title IX Coordinator? If 
yes, under what circumstances?  
 
ANSWER:   No. However, when clergy receive information constituting a reportable incident while acting 
in their clergy capacity , they must promptly report only the type of i ncident and no other details 
received from an individual providing the information with an expectation of confidentiality .  Clergy who 
observe or receive information about a reportable incident when not acting in their clergy capacity, must report all rele vant information about the incident, as must most all other employees .  The same 
exception applies to employees who have confidentiality or privilege duties under law, e.g. healthcare 
providers and counselors .   
6. Are employees required to report to the Titl e IX Coordinator if a report able  incident allegedly 
occurred off campus ? Or what if the reported incident was allegedly committed by a non-
affiliated person of the university ?  
ANSWER:  Yes. If the reported incident is “alleged to have been committed by or against a person who 
was a student enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the [alleged] incident”5 must 
promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator. The location or date of a reportable  incident does not 
exempt the reporting duty.  Confidential reporting requirements are also still applicable6.   
7. How  do the employee reporting requirements affect the  confidentiality and privacy of human 
subjects in research studies ? 
ANSWER:   Depending upon the terms and conditions of a project, r esea rchers may  enjoy confidential 
status under law.   Institutions should confer with legal counsel for such determinations.  The institution 
 
4 See Definitions in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.3; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB Title IX Training  
5 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB 
Title IX Training  
6 See PPT, Slide 50 in THECB Title IX Training  Page 3 of 6 
 may also  designate researchers “ with whom students may speak with confidentially ” 7 in the course of 
participating as human subjects in research studies. If a researcher is designated as confidential, then 
they would follow the reporting requirements of confidential employees8. If a researcher is not 
designated confidential by the institution, then they are required to r eport to the Title IX Coordinator all 
information known9.  
   
TITLE IX COORDINATOR AND CEO SUMMARY REPORTS  
 
1.  Are institutions required to include reports submitted  to the Title IX Coordinator from January 1, 
2020 (the effective date of the state statute) and later  on the Title IX Coordinator Report? Or are 
institutions expected to include reports submitted to the Title IX Coordinator as of the start of the 
Fall 2019 semester?  
ANSWER:  Institutions  are required to include reports submitted to the Ti tle IX Coordinator from January 
1, 2020  and later on a Title IX Coordinator Report10. The Title IX Coordinator Reports must be submitted 
to the institution’s Chief Executive Officer  (CEO)  “not less that once every three months ”11.  
 
2. Are institutions requir ed to include reports submitted directly by a complainant (alleged victim)  
on the Title IX Coordinator Report, if no reports were submitted about this incident from 
university employees?    
ANSWER:  Institutions are required to include reports received from  “an employee  who witnesses or 
receives information”12 regarding an alleged reportable incident . Institutions may, but are not required 
to, include reports from non -employees, including students or third parties on a Title IX Coordinator 
Report13.   
3. Are institutions required to include reports submitted  from student employees  (e.g. resident 
assistants) on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  And w hat are the administrative reporting 
requirement s when an alleged incident is reported by a student employee  (e.g. resident 
assistant) to the Title IX Coordinator?  
ANSWER:   No.  Students who are enrolled at the institution are not subject the reporting requireme nts 
of the new law. Moreover, any employee14 who is enrolled as a student at the institution is  not required 
to report to the Title IX Coordinator . Institutions may, but are not required to, include reports from 
students, including student employees.    
 
7 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(c) ; see also PPT, Slide 39 and 43 in 
THECB Title IX Training  
8 See PPT, Slide 50 in THECB Title IX Training  
9 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(b)  
10 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 4 in THECB Title IX Training  
11 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a)  
12 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a)  
13 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 11 in THECB Title IX Training  
14 See Definitions in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.251; see also PPT, Slide 34 -35 in THECB Title IX Training  Page 4 of 6 
 4. How does the institution report on an Investigation or Disciplinary Status if there is no applicable 
reason for an investigation or disciplinary process ? For example, how should an informal 
resolution  or an investigation that was completed with a standard of evidence not met  be 
reported on the Title IX Coordinator Report  or CEO Report ? 
ANSWER:  When an investigation and/or disciplinary process is not applicable (e.g. inform al resolution) 
for the report submitted to the Title IX Coordinator, institutions may  note on the Title IX Coordinator 
Report that the Investigation Status and/or Disciplinary Status is “ not applicable15.”  
Institutions can count non- applicable  investigations and disciplinary processes in “ Number of reports 
under Section 51.252 for  which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process16” on the 
CEO Report (Summary Dat a Report).   
 
5. Are institutions required to note which reports are confidential reports  on the Title IX 
Coordinator Report?  
 
ANSWER:  No.  However, it is recommended that reports  separately specify the number of confidential 
reports received from confidential reporters.  Providing the number of  confidential reports may  provide  
a more complete  context  to the report .  
6. What is the difference between Table 1  (reports by employees) and Table 2  (reports about 
employees) in Appendix A on the Title IX Coordinator Report Template?  
 
ANSWER:  Table 1 captures  all reports received by an employee  who  “witnesses or receives information 
[about an alleged incident] that the employee  reasonably believes [the alleged incident could] 
constitute sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking…”17. Table 2 captures all 
reports received about an employee  who allegedly fails to report or falsely reports18 to the Title IX 
Coordinator.  
7. Are institutions required to incl ude reports of alleged incidents for employee -on-employee cases  
in the Title IX Coordinator Report? What are the applicable case scenarios?  
ANSWER : Yes.  The law terms a reportable incident as one that is “alleged to have been committed by or  
against a person who was a student enrolled at or  an employee of the institution at the time of the 
[alleged] incident”19.  
 
8. Are institutions required to include reports of alleged “discrimination, ” “retaliation, ” 
“harassment, ” and/or other conduct  on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  
 
15 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 73 -85 in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Title IX Coordinator 
Report Template and CEO Report Temp late in THECB Title IX Training  
16 See CEO Report Template in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 37 in 
THECB Title IX Training  
17 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a)  
18 See Failure to Report or False Reports; Offenses in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.255  
19 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB 
Title IX Training  Page 5 of 6 
  
ANSWER:  Institutions are required to include reports of alleged “sexual harassment,” “sexual assault,” 
“dating violence,” or “stalking”20 in the Title IX Coordinator Report. Institutions are not required to 
include reports that do not meet the definitions of reportable conduct under the Texas statute.  
 
9. The information in the Title IX Coordinator Report template footnotes states an incident should 
not be included in the report  if it “does not constitute “sexual harassment,” “sexual assault,” 
“dating violence,” or “stalking” as defined in the TEC, Section 51.251. Does this equal “ no policy 
violation ?” 
 
ANSWER :  A Title IX Coordinator determination that an alleged incident does constitute a reportable 
incident does not equal a “no policy violation.”   Any such determination pertains solely to the 
requirements of the new state law.   Violations of policy should be made in accordance with each 
institution’s governance.  
 
10. Are institutions required to include the complainant and respondent affiliation s of the institution  
(e.g. student, employee, non -affiliated) on the Title IX Coordinator Report?   
 
ANSWER:   No. Institutions are not required to include complainant and respondent affiliations of the 
institution  and inclusion is not recommend ed.  For institutions with smaller caseloads, the more 
information included on the Title IX Coordinator Report  may inadve rtently identify a person involved . 
The Committee designed the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and CEO Report Template to 
minimize report information included so that they remained unidentifiable, per confidentiality and 
privacy restrictions21.  
 
11. Are institutions required to use the Title IX Coordinator Report Template  and/or  CEO Report 
Template ?  
 
ANSWER:  No, institutions are not required to use the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and/or the 
CEO Report Template. The Committee designed the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and CEO 
Report Template to provide the statewide institutions a consistent way of meeting the Texas statute’s 
administrative reporting requirements22.  
12. How does the institution report on multiple reports  involving the s ame complainant and 
respondent  on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  
 
ANSWER:  When identifiable , institutions can consolidate duplicate reports (of the same alleged incident) 
into one case number and count one time on the Title IX Coordinator Report23. Howe ver, if there are 
multiple unique incidents alleged that involve the same complainant and respondent, then each alleged 
incident  reported should be included separately on the Title IX Coordinator Report. If multiple reports 
involving the same complainant and respondent  cannot be identified as the same alleged incident(s), 
then the reports should be included separately on the Title IX Coordinator Report.  
 
20 See Definitions in Tex. Ed u. Code, Section 51.251; see also PPT, Slide 9 -12 in THECB Title IX Training  
21 See Confidentiality in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.17 ; see also PPT, Slide 53 -54 in THECB Title IX Training  
22 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253  
23 See PPT, Slide 76 in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 14- 16 in 
THECB Title IX Training  Page 6 of 6 
  
13. Are institutions required to submit a Title IX Coordinator Report to the Chief Executive O fficer 
(CEO) if since January 1, 2020, no reports were submitted to the Title IX Coordinator ?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes, Title IX Coordinator Reports must be submitted to the institution’s Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) “not less that once every three months ,”24 regardless if no reported were submitted to the Title IX 
Coordinator.  
 
An example of “no reports” for the Title IX  Coordinator Report:  
 
Table 1. Alleged Conduct Reported by Employees Under TEC, Section  51.252 
Report  
Number  Date 
Received  Alleged Conduct 
Reported by 
Employees Under § 
51.252  Investigation Status  Disciplinary Status  
N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 
0 reports received for this time period.  
 
14. Are institutions required to submit Title IX Coordinator Reports to THECB?  
ANSWER:  No, the Title IX Coordinator Reports are required to be submitted to the institution’s Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO)25. However, the CEO is required to certify in writing to the THECB the 
institution’s substantial compliance with the Texas statute in October  of each year26.  
 
24 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a)  
25 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 74 in THECB 
Title IX Training  
26 See Compliance in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.19 ; see also PPT, Slide 87 -88 in THECB Title IX Training  
 