 
  
Title IX Non -Discrimination  Operational Guidelines and 
Procedures  
Adopted:  
Revised:  
 
Example Non -Discrimination Policy:   
Career Academy of Utah  is committed to providing an environment that is free from all forms of sex 
discrimination, which includes gender -based discrimination, sexual harassment and sexual violence, as 
regulated by Title VII and Title IX, and to ensuring  the accessibility of appropriate grievance procedures for 
addressing all complaints regarding all forms of sex discrimination and sexual harassment. Career Academy 
of Utah  reserves the authority to independently deal with sex discrimination and sexual harassment 
whenever becoming aware of their existence, regardless of whether a complaint has been lodged in 
accordance with the grievance procedure set forth below.  
 
INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE  
Definition of Sex Discriminatio n and Sexual Harassment (for Students) :  
• Sex discrimination occurs when a person, because of his or her sex, is denied participation in or the 
benefits of any education program or activity that receives federal financial assistance.  
• Sexual harassment is c onduct that: 1) is sexual in nature; 2) is unwelcome; and 3) denies or limits a 
student’s ability to participate in or benefit from a school’s educational program or activity. Sexual 
harassment can be verbal, nonverbal or physical.  
 
Definition of Sex Disc rimination and Sexual Harassment (for Employees) :  
• Sex discrimination occurs when a person who is qualified for a position at issue is subjected to an 
adverse employment action because of his or her sex.  
• Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual ad vances, requests for sexual favors, and other 
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when: 1) submission to such conduct is made a term or 
condition of employment; 2) submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as a basis for 
employment decisi ons affecting the individual; or 3) the conduct has the purpose or effect of 
unreasonably interfering with the employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile 
or offensive working environment.  
 
Any individual, who believes he/she may have  experienced any form of sex discrimination or sexual 
harassment, or who believes that he/she has observed such actions taking place, may receive information 
and assistance regarding the School’s policies and reporting procedures from any of the following:   
 
1. Title IX Coordinator :  Dr. Bonita Teasley, Executive Director, P.O. Box 71607  Salt Lake City, UT 84171 -0607 , 
(512) 424 -9667,  bteasley@careeracademyut.org . For further information on notice of non -discrimination, 
visit http://wdcrobcolp01.ed.gov/CFAPPS/OCR/contactus.cfm  for the address and phone number of the 
office that serves your area, or call 1 -800-421-3481.  
 
 