TITLE - TEXAS TITLE IX DOCUMENTATION

Republic State (Red Region) (This is crawled data)

Page 1 of 6 
 Frequently Asked Questions – THECB Title IX Training  
SB 212 and HB  1735, 86th Legislature 
Texas Education Code, Chapter 51, Subchapters E -2 and E -3 
As of April 13, 2020 
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) adopted  Title IX t raining materials and 
administrative reporting templates1 from the Title IX Training Advisory Committee (“Committee”) in 
accordance with  SB 212 & HB 1735, passed by  the 86th Texas Legislative and signed into law last year. 
Since then, the THECB has received questions related to the laws and how to  apply  them  to Title IX -
related institutional policies, processes, and procedures. The following FAQ’s are based on the questions 
received by  the THECB .  The responses have been reviewed, revised and approved by  the Committee.  
 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS -  WHO MUST REPORT AN INCIDENT OF SEXUAL 
MISCONDUCT  
 
1. Are university peace officers  required to report to the Title IX Coordinator? If yes, when and 
under what circumstances?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes. There is no reporting exemption in the Texas statute for certified peace officers. Peace 
officers are required to promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator when they witness or receive information (e.g. police report) that the peace officer “ reasonably believe s
2 constitutes sexual 
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking”3. However, Title IX coordinators should be 
sensitive to cases involving a potential or active criminal investigation and temporarily delay actions that 
may impede or prejudice a criminal investigation and rights of the parties involved.  
 
2. What if two employees receive the same information about an alleged incident of  reportable 
conduct  (e.g. sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking) , and only one of the 
employees submits a report to the Title IX Coordinator ? Is the “non- reporting”  employee  
automatically investigated for allegedly failing to report  to the Title IX Coordinator?  
 
ANSWER:  No.  When it is alleged that  an employee  did  not promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator , 
the Title IX Coordinator should review the initial report submitted on the alleged incident and any 
relevant  information of the alleged failure to report, u sing a “reasonable person standard” to determine 
if a referral should be made to proper authoritie s for possible prosecution.   The Title IX Coordinator’s 
review should consider circumstances in which two or more employees receive the information 
simultaneously or in the course of providing services for which multiple reports are not required by law, 
e.g.  counsel ing center receptionist, case worker, and counselor.   
 
 
1 THECB Title IX Training  
2 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu . Code, Section 51.252(a)  
3 See Definitions in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.251  Page 2 of 6 
 3. Financial aid staff  receive financial aid applications, appeal requests, and other types of financial 
aid information in which students might disclose “sexual trauma” or other alleged inci dents of 
reportable conduct as an explanation for financial need, financial aid appeals, etc. A re financial 
aid staff  required to report to the Title IX Coordinator ?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes. The law applies  to financial aid employees in the course and scope of employment4 of 
postsecondary educational institutions.  Such employees should be properly trained to understand and 
act upon observing or receiving information on a reportable incident.   
4. What if a student or employee discloses an alleged incident of repo rtable conduct to an 
employee for purposes other than directly reporting an incident? Are there “ extenuating 
circumstances ” that would exempt an employee from being required to report to the Title IX 
Coordinator?  
ANSWER:  No.  The law requires employees to  promptly report reportable incidents to the Title IX 
Coordinator.   Students are not required to report incidents under the law.  
5. Are university clergypersons  exempt from being required to report to the Title IX Coordinator? If 
yes, under what circumstances?  
 
ANSWER:   No. However, when clergy receive information constituting a reportable incident while acting 
in their clergy capacity , they must promptly report only the type of i ncident and no other details 
received from an individual providing the information with an expectation of confidentiality .  Clergy who 
observe or receive information about a reportable incident when not acting in their clergy capacity, must report all rele vant information about the incident, as must most all other employees .  The same 
exception applies to employees who have confidentiality or privilege duties under law, e.g. healthcare 
providers and counselors .   
6. Are employees required to report to the Titl e IX Coordinator if a report able  incident allegedly 
occurred off campus ? Or what if the reported incident was allegedly committed by a non-
affiliated person of the university ?  
ANSWER:  Yes. If the reported incident is “alleged to have been committed by or against a person who 
was a student enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the [alleged] incident”5 must 
promptly report to the Title IX Coordinator. The location or date of a reportable  incident does not 
exempt the reporting duty.  Confidential reporting requirements are also still applicable6.   
7. How  do the employee reporting requirements affect the  confidentiality and privacy of human 
subjects in research studies ? 
ANSWER:   Depending upon the terms and conditions of a project, r esea rchers may  enjoy confidential 
status under law.   Institutions should confer with legal counsel for such determinations.  The institution 
 
4 See Definitions in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.3; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB Title IX Training  
5 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB 
Title IX Training  
6 See PPT, Slide 50 in THECB Title IX Training  Page 3 of 6 
 may also  designate researchers “ with whom students may speak with confidentially ” 7 in the course of 
participating as human subjects in research studies. If a researcher is designated as confidential, then 
they would follow the reporting requirements of confidential employees8. If a researcher is not 
designated confidential by the institution, then they are required to r eport to the Title IX Coordinator all 
information known9.  
   
TITLE IX COORDINATOR AND CEO SUMMARY REPORTS  
 
1.  Are institutions required to include reports submitted  to the Title IX Coordinator from January 1, 
2020 (the effective date of the state statute) and later  on the Title IX Coordinator Report? Or are 
institutions expected to include reports submitted to the Title IX Coordinator as of the start of the 
Fall 2019 semester?  
ANSWER:  Institutions  are required to include reports submitted to the Ti tle IX Coordinator from January 
1, 2020  and later on a Title IX Coordinator Report10. The Title IX Coordinator Reports must be submitted 
to the institution’s Chief Executive Officer  (CEO)  “not less that once every three months ”11.  
 
2. Are institutions requir ed to include reports submitted directly by a complainant (alleged victim)  
on the Title IX Coordinator Report, if no reports were submitted about this incident from 
university employees?    
ANSWER:  Institutions are required to include reports received from  “an employee  who witnesses or 
receives information”12 regarding an alleged reportable incident . Institutions may, but are not required 
to, include reports from non -employees, including students or third parties on a Title IX Coordinator 
Report13.   
3. Are institutions required to include reports submitted  from student employees  (e.g. resident 
assistants) on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  And w hat are the administrative reporting 
requirement s when an alleged incident is reported by a student employee  (e.g. resident 
assistant) to the Title IX Coordinator?  
ANSWER:   No.  Students who are enrolled at the institution are not subject the reporting requireme nts 
of the new law. Moreover, any employee14 who is enrolled as a student at the institution is  not required 
to report to the Title IX Coordinator . Institutions may, but are not required to, include reports from 
students, including student employees.    
 
7 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(c) ; see also PPT, Slide 39 and 43 in 
THECB Title IX Training  
8 See PPT, Slide 50 in THECB Title IX Training  
9 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(b)  
10 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 4 in THECB Title IX Training  
11 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a)  
12 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a)  
13 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 11 in THECB Title IX Training  
14 See Definitions in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.251; see also PPT, Slide 34 -35 in THECB Title IX Training  Page 4 of 6 
 4. How does the institution report on an Investigation or Disciplinary Status if there is no applicable 
reason for an investigation or disciplinary process ? For example, how should an informal 
resolution  or an investigation that was completed with a standard of evidence not met  be 
reported on the Title IX Coordinator Report  or CEO Report ? 
ANSWER:  When an investigation and/or disciplinary process is not applicable (e.g. inform al resolution) 
for the report submitted to the Title IX Coordinator, institutions may  note on the Title IX Coordinator 
Report that the Investigation Status and/or Disciplinary Status is “ not applicable15.”  
Institutions can count non- applicable  investigations and disciplinary processes in “ Number of reports 
under Section 51.252 for  which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process16” on the 
CEO Report (Summary Dat a Report).   
 
5. Are institutions required to note which reports are confidential reports  on the Title IX 
Coordinator Report?  
 
ANSWER:  No.  However, it is recommended that reports  separately specify the number of confidential 
reports received from confidential reporters.  Providing the number of  confidential reports may  provide  
a more complete  context  to the report .  
6. What is the difference between Table 1  (reports by employees) and Table 2  (reports about 
employees) in Appendix A on the Title IX Coordinator Report Template?  
 
ANSWER:  Table 1 captures  all reports received by an employee  who  “witnesses or receives information 
[about an alleged incident] that the employee  reasonably believes [the alleged incident could] 
constitute sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking…”17. Table 2 captures all 
reports received about an employee  who allegedly fails to report or falsely reports18 to the Title IX 
Coordinator.  
7. Are institutions required to incl ude reports of alleged incidents for employee -on-employee cases  
in the Title IX Coordinator Report? What are the applicable case scenarios?  
ANSWER : Yes.  The law terms a reportable incident as one that is “alleged to have been committed by or  
against a person who was a student enrolled at or  an employee of the institution at the time of the 
[alleged] incident”19.  
 
8. Are institutions required to include reports of alleged “discrimination, ” “retaliation, ” 
“harassment, ” and/or other conduct  on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  
 
15 See Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 73 -85 in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Title IX Coordinator 
Report Template and CEO Report Temp late in THECB Title IX Training  
16 See CEO Report Template in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 37 in 
THECB Title IX Training  
17 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a)  
18 See Failure to Report or False Reports; Offenses in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.255  
19 See Reporting Required for Certain Incidents in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.252(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 24 in THECB 
Title IX Training  Page 5 of 6 
  
ANSWER:  Institutions are required to include reports of alleged “sexual harassment,” “sexual assault,” 
“dating violence,” or “stalking”20 in the Title IX Coordinator Report. Institutions are not required to 
include reports that do not meet the definitions of reportable conduct under the Texas statute.  
 
9. The information in the Title IX Coordinator Report template footnotes states an incident should 
not be included in the report  if it “does not constitute “sexual harassment,” “sexual assault,” 
“dating violence,” or “stalking” as defined in the TEC, Section 51.251. Does this equal “ no policy 
violation ?” 
 
ANSWER :  A Title IX Coordinator determination that an alleged incident does constitute a reportable 
incident does not equal a “no policy violation.”   Any such determination pertains solely to the 
requirements of the new state law.   Violations of policy should be made in accordance with each 
institution’s governance.  
 
10. Are institutions required to include the complainant and respondent affiliation s of the institution  
(e.g. student, employee, non -affiliated) on the Title IX Coordinator Report?   
 
ANSWER:   No. Institutions are not required to include complainant and respondent affiliations of the 
institution  and inclusion is not recommend ed.  For institutions with smaller caseloads, the more 
information included on the Title IX Coordinator Report  may inadve rtently identify a person involved . 
The Committee designed the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and CEO Report Template to 
minimize report information included so that they remained unidentifiable, per confidentiality and 
privacy restrictions21.  
 
11. Are institutions required to use the Title IX Coordinator Report Template  and/or  CEO Report 
Template ?  
 
ANSWER:  No, institutions are not required to use the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and/or the 
CEO Report Template. The Committee designed the Title IX Coordinator Report Template and CEO 
Report Template to provide the statewide institutions a consistent way of meeting the Texas statute’s 
administrative reporting requirements22.  
12. How does the institution report on multiple reports  involving the s ame complainant and 
respondent  on the Title IX Coordinator Report?  
 
ANSWER:  When identifiable , institutions can consolidate duplicate reports (of the same alleged incident) 
into one case number and count one time on the Title IX Coordinator Report23. Howe ver, if there are 
multiple unique incidents alleged that involve the same complainant and respondent, then each alleged 
incident  reported should be included separately on the Title IX Coordinator Report. If multiple reports 
involving the same complainant and respondent  cannot be identified as the same alleged incident(s), 
then the reports should be included separately on the Title IX Coordinator Report.  
 
20 See Definitions in Tex. Ed u. Code, Section 51.251; see also PPT, Slide 9 -12 in THECB Title IX Training  
21 See Confidentiality in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.17 ; see also PPT, Slide 53 -54 in THECB Title IX Training  
22 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253  
23 See PPT, Slide 76 in THECB Title IX Training ; see also Report Template Supplemental Training, Slide 14- 16 in 
THECB Title IX Training  Page 6 of 6 
  
13. Are institutions required to submit a Title IX Coordinator Report to the Chief Executive O fficer 
(CEO) if since January 1, 2020, no reports were submitted to the Title IX Coordinator ?  
 
ANSWER:  Yes, Title IX Coordinator Reports must be submitted to the institution’s Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) “not less that once every three months ,”24 regardless if no reported were submitted to the Title IX 
Coordinator.  
 
An example of “no reports” for the Title IX  Coordinator Report:  
 
Table 1. Alleged Conduct Reported by Employees Under TEC, Section  51.252 
Report  
Number  Date 
Received  Alleged Conduct 
Reported by 
Employees Under § 
51.252  Investigation Status  Disciplinary Status  
N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 
0 reports received for this time period.  
 
14. Are institutions required to submit Title IX Coordinator Reports to THECB?  
ANSWER:  No, the Title IX Coordinator Reports are required to be submitted to the institution’s Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO)25. However, the CEO is required to certify in writing to the THECB the 
institution’s substantial compliance with the Texas statute in October  of each year26.  
 
24 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a)  
25 See Administrative Reporting Requirements in Tex. Edu. Code, Section 51.253(a) ; see also PPT, Slide 74 in THECB 
Title IX Training  
26 See Compliance in 19 Tex. Admin. Code Section 3.19 ; see also PPT, Slide 87 -88 in THECB Title IX Training  
 Chapter 3, RULES APPLYING TO ALL PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS 
OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN TEXAS REGARDING POLICIES FOR INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, OR STALKING 1 
Subchapter A,_[ELECTRONIC REPORTING AND AMNESTY FOR STUDENTS REPORTING CERTAIN 
INCIDENTS] 
3.11 [Purpose] 
3.12 [Authority] 
3.13 [Definitions] 
3.14 [Electronic Reporting for Certain Incidents] 
3.15 [Amnesty for Students Reporting Certain Incidents] 
3.11 [Purpose] 
[The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules for postsecondary educational institutions 
to provide an option for enrolled students and employees of the institution to electronically report 
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to the institution; and to provide 
amnesty to enrolled students v1ho report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating 
violence, or stalking. The rules established in this subchapter do not supersede or replace state 
or federal employment la'N.] 
3.12 [Authority] 
[Texas Education Code; Subchapter Z, Chapter 51, §51.9365 and §51.9366 authorize the 
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to adopt rules necessary to administer Subchapter 
Z, Chapter 51.] 
3.13 [Definitions] 
[(a) Dating violence abuse or violence, or a threat of abuse or violence, against a person 'i\'ith 
'Nham the actor has or has had a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature. 
Sexual Misconduct Rules Revision 
3.11-3.15 10.28.19 (b)Postsecondary educational institution an institution of higher education or a private or
independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Texas Education
Code, §61.003.
(c)Sexual assault sexual contact or intercourse •with a person '•'i'ithout the person's consent,
including sexual contact or intercourse against the person's will or in a circumstance in ·which
the person is incapable of consenting to the contact or intercourse.
(d)Sexual harassment unwelcome, sex based verbal or physical conduct that:
(1)in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's 'll!'orl<
performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive v�·ork environment; or
(2)in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pe�•asive that the
conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational
programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
(e)Stalking a course of conduct directed at a person that would cause a reasonable person to
fear for the person's safety or to suffer substantial emotional distress.]
3.14 [Electronic Reporting for Certain Incidents] 
[(a) Each postsecondary educational institution shall provide an option for electronic reporting 
to the institution by an enrolled student or an employee of the institution of an allegation of 
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed against or witnessed 
by the student or employee, regardless of the location at which the alleged offense occurred. 
The electronic reporting option must: 
(1)Allow for anonymous reporting; and
(2)Be easily accessible via a clearly identifiable link on the institution's website home
�2 
(b)A protocol adopted pursuant to Texas Education Code §51.9363 for reporting sexual assault
shall comply with subsection (a) of this section.
(c)Institutions may contract with a third party vendor to provide the electronic reporting
option.
(d)Each public or private postsecondary educational institution shall provide the electronic
reporting option by January 1, 2018.]
3.15 [Amnesty for Students Reporting Certain Incidents] 
[(a) A postsecondary educational institution may not take any disciplinary action against a 
student enrolled at the institution who in good faith reports to the institution being the victim 
Sexual Misconduct Rules Revision 
3.11-3.15 10.28.19 3 
of, or a witness to, an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking 
for a violation by the student of the institution's code of conduct occurring at or near the time 
of the incident, regardless of the location at which the incident occurred or the outcome of the 
institution's disciplinary process regarding the incident, if any. 
(b)Subsection (a) of this section docs not apply to a student 1Nho reports the student's O'Nn
commission or assistance in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking.
(c)A postsecondary educational institution may investigate to determine 'Nhethcr a report of an
incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking ..,,.as made in good
faith. For the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the institution has discretion to
determine good faith, but in no event will good faith exist if the student is found responsible for
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking at or near the time of the
incident.
(d)A determination that a student is entitled to amnesty under subsection (a) of this section is
final and may not be revoked.
(c)This section may not be construed to limit a postsecondary educational institution's ability to
provide amnesty from application of the institution's policies in circumstances not described by
subsection (a) of this section.]
Sexual Misconduct Rules Revision 
3.11-3.15 10.28.19 Chapter 3, RULES APPLYING TO ALL PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSillUTIONS 
OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN TEXAS REGARDING POLICIES FOR INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, OR STALKING 
Subchapter A, REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL 
ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, OR STALKING AT CERTAIN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE 
INSillUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION: AUTHORIZING ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES 
3.1 Purpose 
3.2 Authority 
3.3 Definitions 
3.4 Policy on Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, and Stalking 
3.5 Reporting Required for Certain Incidents 
3.6 Administrative Reporting Requirements 
3.7 Electronic Reporting Requirement 
3.8 Failure to Report or False Report 
3.9 Victim Request Not to Investigate 
3.10 Disciplinary Process for Certain Violations 1 
3.11 Student Withdrawal or Graduation Pending Disciplinary Charges: Request for Information 
from Another Postsecondary Educational Institution 
3.12 Trauma-I nformed Investigation Training 
3.13 Memoranda of Understanding Required 
3.14 Responsible and Confidential Employee 
3.15 Student Advocate 
3.16 Equal Access 
3.17 Confidentiality 
3.18 Retaliation Prohibited 
3.19 Compliance 
3.20 Applicability 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 3.1 Purpose 
The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules to require public, private, and independent 
institutions of higher education to report incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault. dating 
violence, and stalking; to adopt a policy on sexual harassment, sexual assault. dating violence, 
and stalking: implement electronic reporting protocols for such incidents: develop a 
comprehensive prevention and outreach program: establish penalties for noncompliance; and 
provide amnesty or immunities to students and employees who report incidents of sexual 
harassment. sexual assault. dating violence. and stalking. 
3.2 Authority 
Texas Education Code Subchapters E-2, Chapter 51, § 51.259 and Subchapter E-3, Chapter 51, 
§51.295 authorize the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to adopt rules necessary to
administer these Subchapters. 
3.3 Definitions 
(a)Coordinating Board or Board--The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
(b)Course and Scope of Employment--means an employee performing duties in the
furtherance of the institution's interests. 
(c)"Dating violence," "sexual assault." and "stalking" have the same meanings assigned by the
Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. 
Section 1092 (f)(6)(A)). 
(d)Postsecondary educational institution--an institution of higher education or a private or
independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Texas Education 
Code, §61.003. 
(e)Sexual harassment--unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:
(1)in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work
performance or creates an intimidating, hostile. or offensive work environment: or 
(2)in the education context. is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the
conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational 
programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution. 
(f)Substantial Compliance-a postsecondary educational institution has made a good faith
effort to comply with the requirements under these rules provided that the deficiencies 
identified by the Coordinating Board can be readily corrected. 
3.4 Policy on Sexual Harassment. Sexual Assault. Dating Violence, and Stalking 2 
(a)Each postsecondary educational institution shall adopt a policy on sexual harassment. sexual
assault. dating violence, and stalking applicable to each enrolled student and employee of the 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 3 
institution and have the policy approved by the institution's governing body. The policy must 
include: 
(1)Definitions of prohibited behavior:
(2)Sanctions for violations;
(3)Protocol for reporting and responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, and stalking that complies with the electronic reporting 
requirement in Subsection 3.7 of this section; 
( 4)Interim measures to protect victims of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking pending the institution's disciplinary process, including 
protection from retaliation, and any other accommodations or supportive measures 
available to those victims at the institution. This section is not intended to limit an 
institution's ability to implement accommodations to others as needed; and 
(5)A statement regarding:
(A) 
(B) 
(C) the importance of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, 
dating violence, or stalking going to a hospital for treatment and 
preservation of evidence, if applicable, as soon as practicable after 
the incident; 
the right of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating 
violence, or stalking to report the incident to the institution and to 
receive a prompt and equitable resolution of the report; and 
the right of a victim of a crime to choose whether to report the 
crime to law enforcement, to be assisted by the institution in 
reporting the crime to law enforcement, or to decline to report the 
crime to law enforcement. 
(b)Each postsecondary educational institution shall make its policy on sexual harassment,
sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking available to students, faculty, and staff members 
.QY.;_ 
(1)including the policy in the student handbook and personnel handbook or the
institution's equivalent(s); and 
(2)creating and maintaining a web page dedicated solely to the policy that is easily
accessible through a clearly identifiable link on the institution's homepage. 
(c)Each postsecondary educational institution shall require each entering freshman or
undergraduate transfer student to attend an orientation on the institution's sexual harassment, 
sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy before or during the first semester or term of 
enrollment at the institution. The orientation: 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 4 
(1)may be provided online: and
(2)must include the statements described by Subsection (a)(S) of this section.
(d)Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and implement a comprehensive
prevention and outreach program on sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, and 
stalking for enrolled students and employees of the institution. The program must: 
(1)address a range of strategies to prevent sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating violence,
and stalking, including a public awareness campaign; a victim empowerment program: primary 
prevention: bystander intervention: and risk reduction, and 
(2)provide students with information regarding the protocol for reporting incidents of sexual
harassment. sexual assault. dating violence. and stalking, including the name, office location, and 
contact information of the institution's Title IX coordinator. by: 
(A) e-mailing the information to each student at the beginning of each semester
or other academic term: 
(8)including the information in the institution's orientation (which may be provided
online): and 
(C)as part of the protocol for responding to reports of sexual harassment. sexual
assault. dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), each 
postsecondary educational institution shall: 
(i) 
(ii) to the greatest extent practicable based on the number of 
counselors employed by the institution, ensure each alleged victim 
or alleged perpetrator of a sexual harassment. sexual assault. 
dating violence, and stalking incident and any other person who 
reports such incidents are offered counseling provided by a 
counselor who does not provide counseling to any other person 
involved in the incident: and 
notwithstanding any other law, allow an alleged victim or alleged 
perpetrator of a sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating 
violence, and stalking incident to drop a course in which both 
parties are enrolled without any academic penalty. 
(e)Each postsecondary educational institution shall review its sexual harassment, sexual
assault. dating violence, and stalking policy at least each biennium and revise the policy as
necessary and obtain approval from the institution's governing board.
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 3.5 Reporting Required for Certain Incidents 5 
(a)An employee of a postsecondary educational institution who, in the course and scope of
employment, witnesses or receives information regarding the occurrence of an incident that the 
employee reasonably believes constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or 
stalking and is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who was a student 
enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the incident shall promptly report the 
incident to the institution's Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator. 
(1)The employee's duty to report an incident begins on the effective date of these
regulations or January 1, 2020, whichever is later; 
(2)The employee is required to report an incident regardless of when or where the
incident occurred: and 
(3)Institutions may establish additional reporting avenues to comply with this section
provided that the reports are promptly routed to the Title IX coordinator or deputy Title
IX coordinator.
(b)Except as provided by Subsection (c), the report must include all information concerning
the incident known to the reporting person that is relevant to the investigation and, if 
applicable, redress of the incident, including whether an alleged victim has expressed a desire 
for confidentiality in reporting the incident. 
(c)In making a report under this section,
(1)the employees of a postsecondary educational institution identified below
shall only report as follows: 
(A)absent consent from the reporting student, an employee designated by the
institution as a person with whom students may speak confidentially concerning sexual 
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking shall only state the type of 
incident reported and may not include any information that would violate a student's 
expectation of privacy; 
(B)absent consent from the reporting individual, an employee who receives
information regarding an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, 
or stalking under circumstances that render the employee's communications confidential 
or privileged under other law shall only state the type of incident reported and may not 
include any information that would violate an expectation of privacy; or 
(C)absent consent from the victim(s), an employee who receives information
regarding an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking 
in the course and scope of employment as a healthcare provider, mental health care 
provider, or other medical provider shall only state the type of incident reported and 
may not include any information that would violate an expectation of privacy. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 6 
(2)This subsection does not affect the employee's duty to report an incident under any
other law, including but not limited to, the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security 
Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092 (f)), Texas Family Code 
Section 261.101, or Health and Safety Code Section 611.004. When multiple 
confidential employees receive information about the same incident (e.g. student health 
center or counseling center), only a single report stating the type of incident is required. 
(d)Notwithstanding Subsection (a), a person is not required to make a report under this
section concerning: 
(1)an incident in which the person was a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, or stalking: 
(2)an incident of which the person received information due to a disclosure made at a
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking public awareness event 
sponsored by a postsecondary educational institution or by a student organization 
affiliated with the institution: or 
(3)a sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking incident in which
the person has either learned of the incident during the course of their institution's 
review or process or has confirmed with the person or office overseeing the review or 
process, that the incident has been previously reported. 
(e)A person acting in good faith who reports or assists in the investigation of a report of an
incident described by this section or who testifies or otherwise participates in a disciplinary 
process or judicial proceeding arising from a report of such an incident may not be subjected to 
any disciplinary action by the postsecondary educational institution at which the person is 
enrolled or employed for any violation by the person of the institution's policy or code of 
conduct reasonably related to the incident for which suspension or expulsion from the 
institution is not a possible punishment. 
(f)Subsection (e) does not apply to a person who perpetrates or assists in the perpetration of
the incident reported under this section. 
3.6 Administrative Reporting Requirements 
(a)Not less than once every three months, the Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary
educational institution shall submit to the institution's chief executive officer a written report 
('Title IX Coordinator Report'') on the reports received for the institution's reporting period 
under § 3.5, including information regarding: 
(1)the investigation of those reports:
(2)the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports: and
(3)the reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary
process, if any. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 (b)The Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational
institution shall immediately report to the institution's chief executive officer an incident 7 
reported to the coordinator under § 3.5 if the coordinator has cause to believe that the safety of 
any person is in imminent danger as a result of the incident. 
(c)Subject to Subsection (d), at least once annually, during either the fall or spring semester,
the chief executive officer of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the 
institution's governing body and post on the institution's Internet website a report C'CEO 
Report'') concerning the reports received under§ 3.5. The CEO report: 
(1)may not identify any person: and
(2)must include:
(A)the number of reports received under § 3.5:
(B)the number of investigations conducted as a result of those reports:
(C)the disposition, if any. of any disciplinary processes arising from those
reports: 
(D)the number of those reports for which the institution determined not to
initiate a disciplinary process, if any: and 
(E)any disciplinary actions taken under § 3.8.
(d)If for any semester a postsecondary educational institution has fewer than 1,500 enrolled
students. the chief executive officer of the institution shall submit and post a report required 
under Subsection (c) for that semester only if more than five reports were received under§ 3.5 
during that semester. 
(e)For purposes of this section, disposition means the final result under the institution's
disciplinary process. 
(f) For all reports under this section: 
(1)When identifiable, reports may exclude duplicate reports of a single alleged incident:
(2)Reports may separately specify the number of confidential reports received by
employees designated under section 3.5(c): and 
(3)The Coordinating Board shall make available to institutions a recommended template
for the Title IX Coordinator Report and the CEO Report, which satisfies the reporting 
requirements of this section. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 3.7 Electronic Reporting 
Each postsecondary educational institution shall provide an option for a student enrolled at or 
an employee of the institution to electronically report to the institution an allegation of sexual 
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed against or witnessed by the 
student or employee, regardless of the location at which the alleged offense occurred. The 
electronic reporting option must: 
3.8 (1)Allow for anonymous reporting; and
(2)Be easily accessible via a clearly identifiable link on the institution's website home
� 
Failure to Report or False Report 
A postsecondary educational institution shall terminate the employment of an employee whom 
the institution determines, in accordance with the institution's disciplinary procedure, to have 
committed an offense under Texas Education Code Sec. 51.255. 
3.9 Victim Request Not to Investigate 8 
a)If an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or
stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution requests the institution not to 
investigate the alleged incident, the institution may investigate the alleged incident in a manner 
that complies with the confidentiality requirements under Texas Education Code Section 51.291 
and Section 3.17 of this Subchapter. In determining whether to investigate the alleged incident. 
the institution shall consider: 
(1)the seriousness of the alleged incident;
(2)whether the institution has received other reports of sexual harassment.
sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed by the alleged perpetrator 
or perpetrators; 
(3)whether the alleged incident poses a risk of harm to others; and
(4)any other factors the institution determines relevant.
(b)If a postsecondary educational institution decides not to investigate an alleged
incident of sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, or stalking based on the alleged 
victim's request not to investigate, the institution shall take any reasonable steps the institution 
determines necessary and consistent with the institution's policy and applicable law to protect the 
health and safety of the institution's community in relation to the alleged incident. 
(c)A postsecondary educational institution shall inform an alleged victim of an incident
of sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, or stalking who requests the institution not 
to investigate the alleged incident of the institution's decision whether to investigate the alleged 
incident. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 9 
3.10 Disciplinary Process for Certain Violations 
A postsecondary educational institution that initiates a disciplinary process concerning an 
allegation that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's policy or code of 
conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking shall: 
(1)provide to the student and the alleged victim a prompt and equitable
opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence relevant to the alleged 
violation during the disciplinary process; 
(2)ensure that both the student and the alleged victim have reasonable and
equitable access to all evidence relevant to the alleged violation in the institution's
possession, including any statements made by the alleged victim or by other
persons, information stored electronically, written or electronic communications,
social media posts, or physical evidence, redacted as necessary to comply with any
applicable federal or state law regarding confidentiality:
and
(3)take reasonable steps to protect the student and the alleged victim from
retaliation and harassment during the pendency of the disciplinary process. 
3.11 Student Withdrawal or Graduation Pending Disciplinary Charges: Request for Information 
from Another Postsecondary Educational Institution 
(a)If a student withdraws or graduates from a postsecondary educational institution pending a
disciplinary charge alleging that the student violated the institution's policy or code of conduct by
committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, the institution:
(1)may not end the disciplinary process or issue a transcript to the student until
the institution makes a final determination of responsibility: and 
(2)shall expedite the institution's disciplinary process as necessary to
accommodate both the student's and the alleged victim's interest in a speedy 
resolution. 
(b)On request by another postsecondary educational institution, a postsecondary educational
institution shall, as permitted by state or federal law, including the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. 12329, provide to the requesting institution information relating
to a determination by the institution that a student enrolled at the institution violated the
institution's policy or code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking.
3.12 Trauma-Informed Investigation Training 
A postsecondary educational institution shall ensure each of its employed peace officers 
completes training on trauma-informed investigation into allegations of sexual harassment, sexual 
assault, dating violence, and stalking. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 10 
3.13 Memoranda of Understanding Required 
To facilitate effective communication and coordination regarding allegations of sexual 
harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, and stalking at the institution, a postsecondary 
educational institution shall enter into one or more memoranda of understanding with an entity 
from one or more of the following categories: 
(1)local law enforcement agencies:
(2)sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence. or stalking advocacy groups: and
(3)hospitals or other medical resource providers.
3.14 Responsible and Confidential Employee 
(a)Each postsecondary educational institution shall:
(1)designate:
(A)one or more employees to act as responsible employees for purposes
of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Section 1681 
et seq.): and 
(B)one or more employees as persons to whom students enrolled at the
institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual 
assault. dating violence, and stalking: and 
(2)inform each student enrolled at the institution of the responsible and
confidential employees designated under Subsection (1). 
(b)A confidential employee designated under Subsection (a)(l)(B) may not disclose any
communication made by a student to the employee unless the student consents to the disclosure 
or the employee is required to make the disclosure under Section 3.S(c). state law, or federal 
law. 
3.15 Student Advocate 
(a)A postsecondary educational institution may designate one or more students enrolled at the
institution as student advocates to whom other students enrolled at the institution may speak 
confidentially concerning sexual harassment. sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. The 
institution shall notify each student enrolled at the institution of the student advocate(s) 
designated under this subsection. 
(b)A student advocate designated under Subsection (a) may not disclose any communication
made by a student to the advocate unless the student consents to the disclosure or the advocate
is required to make the disclosure under state or federal law.
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 11 
3.16 Equal Access 
In implementing the requirements under this subchapter. a postsecondary educational institution 
shall. to the greatest extent practicable, ensure equal access for students enrolled at or employees 
of the institution who are persons with disabilities. The institution shall make reasonable efforts 
to consult with a disability services office of the institution, advocacy groups for people with 
disabilities. and other relevant stakeholders to assist the institution with complying with the 
institution's duties under this section. 
3.17 Confidentiality 
(a)The protections provided by this section apply to:
(1)an alleged victim;
(2)a person who reports an incident to an institution;
(3)a person who sought guidance from the institution concerning an incident;
( 4)a person who participated in the institution's investigation of an incident; or
(5)a person who is alleged in a report made to an institution to have committed or
assisted in the commission of sexual harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, or 
stalking. if after completing an investigation, the institution determines the report to 
be unsubstantiated or without merit. 
(b)Unless waived in writing by the person, the identity of a person described by Subsection (a):
(1)is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552. Government
Code; and 
(2)may be disclosed only to:
(A)persons employed by or under contract with the postsecondary
educational institution to which the report is made who are necessary for 
an investigation of the report or other related hearings; 
(B)a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal
investigation of the report by persons described by Subsection (a); 
(C)a health care provider in an emergency, as determined necessary by
the institution; 
(D)the person or persons alleged to have perpetrated the incident. to the
extent required by other law; and
(E)potential witnesses to the incident as necessary to conduct an
investigation of the report and to the extent required by other law. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 12 
(c)For the purposes of this section, investigation includes the coordination of the incident
response, implementation of interim measures, adjudication of the report, and disclosure by the 
institution as required under state or federal law. 
3.18 Retaliation Prohibited 
(a)A postsecondary educational institution may not discipline or otherwise discriminate against
an employee who in good faith: 
(1)makes a report as required by § 3.5; or
(2)cooperates with an investigation, a disciplinary process, or a judicial proceeding
relating to a report made by the employee as required by§ 3.5. 
(b)Subsection (a) does not apply to an employee who:
(1)reports an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault. dating violence, and
stalking perpetrated by the employee; or 
(2)cooperates with an investigation, a disciplinary process, or a judicial proceeding
relating to an allegation that the employee perpetrated an incident of sexual 
harassment. sexual assault. dating violence, and stalking. 
3.19 Compliance 
(a)The chief executive officer of each postsecondary educational institution shall annually
certify in writing to the Coordinating Board, in October of each year, that the institution is in 
substantial compliance with Texas Education Code Subchapter E-2. The Coordinating Board 
shall make available to institutions a required template for the certification which satisfies the 
requirements of this section. 
(b)If the Coordinating Board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in
substantial compliance with Texas Education Code Subchapters E-2 on or after January 1. 2020, 
and E-3 on or after August L 2020, the Coordinating Board may assess an administrative 
penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million. In determining the 
amount of the penalty, the Coordinating Board shall consider the nature of the violation and the 
number of students enrolled at the institution. 
(c)If the Coordinating Board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary
educational institution under Subsection (b), the Coordinating Board shall provide to the 
institution written notice of the Coordinating Board's reasons for assessing the penalty. 
(d)A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under
Subsection (b) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001. Government 
Code. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 (e)A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed
under Subsection (b) using state or federal money. 13 
(f) The Coordinating Board shall deposit an administrative penalty collected under this section 
to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008. Texas 
Government Code. 
(g)The Coordinating Board shall annually submit to the governor. the lieutenant governor, the
speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary 
jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a 
report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary 
educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section 
and any penalties assessed under this section during the calendar year preceding the date of 
the report. 
3.20 Applicability 
Sections 3.1-3.3, 3.5-3.6, 3.8, 3.14, and 3.17-3.20 of this subchapter are effective on January 1. 
2020 or 30 days after the publication of these rules in the Texas Register, whichever is later. The 
remainder of this subchapter is effective on August 1, 2020. 
Rules on Sexual Harassment/Assault 
FINAL DRAFT 11.20.19 Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator - Texas Workforce Commission
Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website.
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Submit unemployment documents for claimants only
Submit unemployment documents for employers only
Submit documents for reporting unemployment fraud
Unemployment Benefits Earnings Verification
Employer Response to Notice of Application for Unemployment Benefits
Cash Draw & Monthly Expenditure Report System (CDERS)
Learner Outcome Tracking System (LOTS)
Licensed Career Schools & Colleges Directory
Texas Educating Adults Management System (TEAMS)
Find Resources for Businesses & Employers
Learn about Employment Law, Discrimination, Wages & Child Labor
Access Texas Labor Market Information
Learn about Unemployment Benefits Fraud & Identity Fraud
Vocational Rehabilitation Business Relations
Adult Education & Literacy Advisory Committee
Business Enterprises of Texas Elected Committee of Managers
Jobs & Education for Texans Advisory Board
Purchasing from People with Disabilities Advisory Committee
Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator
Vocational Rehabilitation - Title IX Coordinator
This page contains comprehensive information about the essential role of the Title IX Coordinator within the Vocational Rehabilitation framework.
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination in education programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance. It states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." Title IX protects persons from discrimination while participating within the scope of an education program or activity. Title IX Personnel TrainingThis page contains training materials for Title IX Coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, and any person who facilitates an informal resolution process.Association of Title IX Administrators (ATIXA) TrainingThompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Video PlaylistThompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - MaterialsOffice for Civil Rights Title IX Webinars - Video PlaylistThese materials are posted publicly in compliance with 34 CRF Part 106.45(b)(10)(i)(D) of the 2020 Title IX regulations.
Contact Information:Erin HumphreysPhone: 512-367-2397Email: TitleIX@twc.texas.gov
Contact Information:Erin Humphreys (Interim)Phone: 512-367-2397Email: CCRCTitleIX@twc.texas.gov
Title IX Procedure Manual - Updated 8/15/2023
Criss Cole Student Handbook - Regular Print - Updated 10/04/2023
Criss Cole Student Handbook - Large Print - Updated 10/04/2023
Criss Cole Rehabilitation Center (CCRC) Policy Manual - Updated 10/04/2023
CCRC Title IX LiaisonErin Humphreys (Interim) 512-367-2397 EmailCCRCTitleIX@twc.texas.gov  Mailing Address    4800 North Lamar Blvd  Austin, TX 78756  United States
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer/Program. Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities. Deaf, hard-of-hearing or speech-impaired customers may contact TWC through the relay service provider of their choice.  For questions, compliments or complaints, call 800-628-5115.
Transparency: State Revenue & Spending
Click here to visit twitterClick here to visit youtubeClick here to visit facebookClick here to visit linkedin
Copyright © Texas Workforce Commission. All rights reserved.SitemapPoliciesEqual Opportunity is the lawReport Fraud: 800-252-3642
Chat with us Speak with our Virtual AssistantArrow up icon for opening chat window for TWC virtual agent
Help Desk
Association of Title IX Administrators (ATIXA) Training
Learn from top practitioners through in-person and online training and certifications.
Confirm your attendance during your training and access all training and event materials here.
ATIXA is now accepting scholarship applications for 2024 virtual courses.
Access your upcoming trainings and events, member materials, discounts, certifications, and more.
The home for Title IX coordinators, investigators, and administrators.
The ATIXA Member Library is a searchable and comprehensive listing of all items shared to, and posted by ATIXA included in our membership levels.
Learn more about ATIXA's role in policy matters that impact the field.
Learn about ATIXA's mentoring program and apply to be a Mentor or Mentee.
Come together with your fellow Title IX community to always continue learning.
Confirm your attendance and access everything you need for your ATIXA training or event here.
Join us for the 2024 Winter Symposium in Orlando, FL from January 21-26, 2024, to engage with colleagues and faculty while receiving valuable in-person training and certification.
ATIXA brings Title IX administrators together to promote gender equality.
Upload onto your Title IX website to show the training provided by ATIXA.
If you don’t have a website, you will have to make hard copies of these materials available for inspection. ATIXA will not be providing hardcopies of any items on this page.
Alternatively, you may link to this page; however, OCR may deem this insufficient. Training attendees are not authorized to publicly post ATIXA materials in any other way.
34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10) requires all ATIXA training materials to be posted publicly. This site facilitates the centralization of hundreds of materials developed by and owned by ATIXA, which can be linked to by individual colleges and schools.
The materials posted to this site are proprietary and are copyrighted. Those copyrights are registered with the Library of Congress. The legal penalties for copyright infringement range from $200 to $150,000 for each work infringed, and the infringer pays for all attorneys’ fees and court costs.
Your right is a right of inspection and review of the materials on this site, only. No other right is granted beyond viewing. You are not authorized to copy, use, adapt, save, repost, share publicly, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for training, or for any commercial purpose. Any such use will result in damages equivalent to the full-per-head registration costs to the applicable ATIXA training, plus damages for reputational harm to ATIXA, in addition to any copyright infringement fines and/or penalties.
Proceeding to use and access the content on this page demonstrates your acceptance and understanding of these terms and conditions. To contact ATIXA with questions about any of the contents of this site, please email events@atixa.org.
The Title IX Regulations, 34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10), require all Recipients to post training slides used to satisfy the Title IX Regulations’ training requirements to your organization’s website. Here is some information you may want to have about such public website postings:
Recipients are required to post the most recent Title IX team member training materials to their organization’s website by August 14, 2020.
Only the most recent version of training materials is required to be posted, and websites should be updated each time a training is completed.
You should maintain an internal archive of all historical Title IX team training materials for a period of seven years beginning August 14, 2020.
Materials are posted from January 1, 2018, to the present and are regularly updated.
Training materials are listed below by type of certification or training and by year, but not by location.
ATIXA cannot guarantee that any materials on this site were seen by any particular trainee.
ATIXA Certification refers to attendance at a qualifying event; ATIXA cannot speak to individual attendees’ knowledge, expertise, or command of the material. Each attendee is responsible for the learning outcomes of any training.
There is nothing that would stop an individual from copying materials from this site and claiming they have attended training. As such, ATIXA makes no guarantees regarding representation or posting of its content with respect to any level of understanding, competence, comprehension, or even attendance.
All post-August 14, 2020, ATIXA certification registrants should use this page to obtain their publicly posted training materials.
Understand that any member of the public can access these materials, and some will be searching for evidence that members or attendees have received training that is biased or biasing. Although ATIXA materials are neutral, encourage impartiality (or multi-partiality), and a fair evaluation of all evidence, you should be careful about attending training from organizations that may be biased or that have political agendas. Also, be careful about some trauma-informed training organizations whose content is not well-grounded in empirical scientific research or data.
If you are a member of the public, your right is a right of inspection and review of the materials on this site, only. No other right is granted beyond viewing. You are not authorized to copy, use, adapt, save, repost, share publicly, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for training, or for any commercial purpose.
If you have received training from ATIXA and need to post your training slides to comply with the Title IX regulations, you are granted the right to repost the slides on this site for completed training on your organization’s website for compliance purposes, only. ATIXA grants no other to use, copy, adapt, or alter any contents from this site. You are not permitted to use the materials on this site for external training, or for any commercial purpose. Any such use will result in damages equivalent to the full, per-head registration costs to the applicable ATIXA training, plus damages for reputational harm to ATIXA, in addition to any copyright infringement fines and/or penalties.
ATIXA’s public certification trainings are posted below, including the slides for all such trainings. The materials may not be dated or labeled with your specific training but are materially the same as the materials used and provided to you during your training. The order of some slides may change over time, as may slight variations to content, but the main substance is unchanged.
Click on the hyperlinked slides for your completed ATIXA training below.Once opened, download the PDF slides to your computer’s desktop.Upload onto your Title IX website to show the training provided by ATIXA.
If you don’t have a website, you will have to make hard copies of these materials available for inspection. ATIXA will not be providing hard copies of any items on this page.
Alternatively, you may link to this page; however, OCR may deem this insufficient. Training attendees are not authorized to publicly post ATIXA materials in any other way.
All ATIXA Proprietary Training Materials Are Covered By The Following Limited License and Copyright
By purchasing, receiving, and/or using ATIXA materials, you agree to accept this limited license and become a licensee of proprietary and copyrighted ATIXA-owned materials. The licensee accepts all terms and conditions of this license and agrees to abide by all provisions. No other rights are provided, and all other rights are reserved. These materials are proprietary and are licensed to the licensee only, for their use. This license permits the licensee to use the materials personally and/or internally to the licensee’s organization for training purposes, only. If these materials are used to train Title IX personnel, they are subject to 34 CFR Part 106.45(b)(10), requiring all training materials to be publicly posted on a Recipient’s website. If you have lawfully obtained ATIXA materials by registering for an ATIXA training, you are licensed to use the materials provided for that training. Licensees may download and post a PDF version of training materials for their completed training to their organizational website to comply with federal regulations.
You are not authorized to copy or adapt these materials without explicit written permission from ATIXA. No one may remove this license language from any version of ATIXA materials. Licensees will receive a link to their materials from ATIXA. That link, or links to the materials on that page only, may be posted to the licensee’s website for purposes of permitting public access to the materials for review/inspection, only. Should any non-licensee post these materials to a public website, ATIXA will send a letter instructing the licensee to immediately remove the content from the public website upon penalty of copyright violation. These materials may not be used for any commercial purpose except by ATIXA.
If you would like to request a transcript of the events that you have attended please send an email to transcripts@requests.atixa.org with the subject line “My Transcript”. A copy of your transcript will be emailed to you automatically.
If you would like to request the transcript for someone else, please send an email to transcripts@requests.atixa.org with the subject line the email address of the person who’s transcript you would like to request. Please allow up to 1 business day for these requests to be processed.
We used an item not listed to create our forms, policies, and procedures; how do I post this?
You don’t. These are not trainings, or training materials and therefore not expected to post them. You do not have permission from ATIXA to post these copyrighted materials.
ATIXA determined that materials older than that would not address current regulations-based training requirements. Certifications older than two-years are no longer in good standing with ATIXA.
How quickly do I need to post the training materials once I take a training?
The regulations do not specify, they only state that all trainings must be posted, however recently OCR Investigations have shown the need to post the training materials on your website or provide a hard copy when asked.
I want to post the actual video recording (where applicable), how do I do this?
The regulations did not specify that recordings be posted, only training materials. Thus, ATIXA has provided training materials, and does not grant permission for the posting of any recordings at this time.
ATIXA has posted generic slide sets for the most part, as a training content does not vary substantially from training to training.
I want to list every training I have ever taken with ATIXA, can you provide this to me?
Training materials are only required to be posted for the time period starting August 14, 2020 and forward. There is no requirement to post trainings taken prior to this date. However, as there are people within their 2-year ATIXA Certification time-period, we have provided everything from 2018 to present. Your event transcript on your My ATIXA page will provide a list of all trainings.
You can post the slides provided on your ATIXA Event Lobby that was provided to you at the time of training.
January-June 2018_Coordinator Five_Bias & Cultural Competencies Materials
January-June 2018_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors, & MOUs Materials
January-June 2018_Title IX Coordinator & Administrator Level Four: Trainer Training: Advocacy, Prevention & Trauma
January-June 2018_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
July-December 2018_Climate Surveys_VAWA Compliance_Strategic Prevention Materials
July-December 2018_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
July-December 2018_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
July-December 2018_Investigator Three A_Sexual Violence Case Processing & Resolution Materials
July-December 2018_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
January-June 2019_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
January-June 2019_Coordinator Three_Compliance and Case Management Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Five_Bias & Cultural Competencies Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Four_Trainer Training, What Title IX Coordinators Need to Know About Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Three_Compliance & Case Management Materials
July-December 2019_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
January-June 2020_Coordinator Three_Compliance and Case Management Materials
January-June 2020_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors, and MOUs Materials
July-December 2020_Coordinator Three_Compliance & Case Management Materials
July-December 2020_Coordinator Two_Pressures, Politics, Sanctions, Minors & MOUs Materials
July-December 2020_Investigator Three B_Sexual Harassment Case Processing & Resolution Materials
January - June 2022_K-12 Coordinator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Civil Rights Investigator Four Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX Coordinator and Administrator Four: Advocacy, Prevention, and Trauma Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Coordinator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Civil Rights Investigator Two Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 ADA/504 Coordinator Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Hearing Officer and Decision-Maker Certification Course Materials
July-December 2022 Civil Rights Investigator One: Foundations Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX for Healthcare Educators and Providers Training Materials
July-December 2022  NPRiMer: Preparing Your K-12 School or District for the 2023 Title IX Regulations Training Materials
July-December 2022 NPRiMer: Preparing for the 2023 Title IX Regulations for Higher Education Training Materials
July-December 2022 DEI Practitioner One: Foundations Training Materials
July-December 2022 Title IX Compliance and Athletics Training Materials
July-December 2022 Violence Risk Assessment with NABITA Endorsement Training Materials
July-December 2022 K-12 Investigation Report Writing Training Materials
January-June 2023_Hearing Officer & Decision-Maker Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_Investigator Two: Advanced Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Investigator One Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_K-12 Investigator Two Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials
January-June 2023_NPRiMer for K-12 School Districts Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_ADA Section 504 Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Civil Rights Investigator One Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Civil Rights Investigator Four Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Gender Equity Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Informal Resolution Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Informal Resolution Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Intersections with ADA, Section 504, and IDEA for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Report Writing Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Report Writing for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Investigation Skills & Report Writing for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_K-12 Civil Rights Investigator One Foundations Course Materials
July-December 2023_K-12 Civil Rights Investigator Two Course Materials
July-December 2023_Live Hearings for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Making Supportive Measures Count Seminar Course Materials
July-December 2023_Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissals Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_NPRiMer for K-12 School Districts Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Sex-Based Harassment Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_Supporting Pregnancy, Parenting, & Related Conditions Workshop Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Compliance and Athletics for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Compliance Essentials for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Coordinator Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Hearing Chairs Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Hearing Officer and Decision Maker Certification Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Higher Education Decision-Maker Course Materials
July-December 2023_Title IX Investigator Foundations for K-12 Education Course Materials
July-December 2023_Violence Risk Assessment with NABITA Endorsement Course Materials
January-June 2024_ADA and Section 504 Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
January-June 2024_Gender Equity Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
January-June 2024_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials (Day One)
January-June 2024_NPRiMer for Higher Education Certification Course Materials (Day Two)
January-June 2024_NPRiMer Preparing Your K-12 School or District for the Pending Title IX Regulations Course Materials
January-June 2024_Sex-Based Harassment Foundations for Higher Education Course Materials
January-June 2024_Title IX Compliance and Athletics for Higher Education Course Materials
Full Page Slides: Collegiate Athletics Focused: Compliance in COVID Times Webinar - July 31, 2020
Full Page Slides: K-12 Athletics Focused: Compliance in COVID Times Webinar - July 30, 2020
Hearing Panels and Decision-Makers: Briefing on the New Regulations Webinar Slides
New Title IX Regulations for Boards of Trustees and Cabinet-Level Administrators
Webinar- OCR Effective Commenting-Overview of the Notice and Comment Period
Webinar- Recent Due Process Rulings by the California Courts-What Do California Colleges and Universities Need to Know and Do?
September 19, 2022 - Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Materials
Common Report Writing Errors in Title IX & Civil Rights Investigations
All customized training materials from 2018-Present are included below. If you believe your organization’s customized training should be listed but is not, please contact our Custom Events Team at customevents@tngconsulting.com.
March 16, 2018_Community College of Spokane_Customized Sexual Harassment Training
April 23-24, 2018_The University System of Georgia_Customized Investigator 3 Training
May 10-11, 2018_American University of Beruit_Customized Investigator 2 Training
August 9, 2018_Long Beach City College_Customized Civil Rights Training
Sept 12-13, 2018_Angelo State University_Customized Panel Tune Up Training
October 2-3, 2018_University of Alaska Systems_Customized Investigator 2 Training
April, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_PreK-12 Title IX Certification Training
June 2019_Maryland Affinity Group_Customized Advanced Title IX Training
July, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_K-12 Investigations Training
September 11-13, 2019 - PreK-12 Title IX Administrator Certification Course Slides
September 16-17, 2019_West Virginia School of Osteopathic Medicine_Customized Civil Rights Investigator Training
September, 2019_Hawaii Department of Education_PreK-12 Title IX Administrator and Investigator Training
October 16-17, 2019_Los Angeles Community College District_Customized ATIXA Training
November 12, 2019_Southern Oregon University_Customized Title IX Special Topics Training
May 28 and June 1, 2020_Naperville School District_Customized Title IX Overview Training
July 15, 2020_Bates College_Final Title IX Regulations Overview Training
July 21-22, 2020_Metropolitan Community College_Customized Title IX Training
August 5, 2020_Maryland Affinity Group_2020 Regulations Overview and Intersection with Maryland Law
September, 2020_Wilkes Barre University_Customized Hearing Officer Training
September 11 2020_Los Angeles Community College District Customized Title IX Training
September 23 and 24 2020_Los Angeles Community College District Customized Title IX Training
October 16, 2020_Ohio State University_Title IX Training Investigator & Decision-Makers
October 20, 2020_Ohio State University_Foundations of the First Amendment
October 28 and October 29, 2020_Naperville School District_K-12 Civil Rights InvestigatorTrainingJune 15 – 16, 2020 - Miami Dade County Public Schools_K-12 Coordinator Administrator Level 1 Cert Course
August 11, 2020_Rhode Island Department of Health_Custom Title IX Regulations Training
August 12-13, 2020_Rhode Island Department of Health_Custom Title IX Investigation Training
February 12-19, 2021_Stockton University Title IX Training: Roles, Responsibilities and  Regulations
March 11th 2021_Post University_ Title IX Hearing and Decision Maker Training
April 20th 2021_ Nebraska State College System_First Amendment Presentation Slides
April 20th 2021_ Nebraska State College System_Clery Act Presentation Slides
June 24th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Advisor Training
June 29th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_ Decision Maker Training
July 8th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Judicial Officer Training
July 9th 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_ 504 Coordinator Training
August 11-12, 2021_West Ada School District_K-12 Administrators Training
July 8, 2021_Los Angeles Community College District_Hearing Officer Training
August 13, 2021_Rhode Island Department of Health_Advanced Content Training
August 2, 2021_Transylvania University_Civil Rights Investigator Training
August 10th, 2021_The College of St. Scholastica_Decision-Maker Training
August 10th, 2021_The College of St. Scholastica_Investigation Report Training
Full Page Custom: Tredyffrin Easttown School District K-12 Training Course Slides
Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services_March 9, 2023_Full Page Slides
University of South Carolina - Columbia_Civil Rights Law Overview Slides
Paul Mitchell Advanced Education_Investigation and Documentation Slides
Laredo College_Solutions for Managing Intake, Jurisdiction, and Dismissal in the Title IX Grievance Process Workshop Slides
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University_Title IX Training Slides
The Association of Title IX Administrators is the nation’s leading membership organization for Title IX professionals. We promote, develop, and safeguard the practice of Title IX administration and those who work in this field.
Comprehensive, systems-level solutions for risk management designed by experts.
Support and professional development for behavioral intervention team members.
As part of our contined effort to improve our portal and user experience, we are currently requiring some users to reset their passwords.
Please click the button below to recieve an email with additional instructions for resetting your password.
Thompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Video Playlist
Thompson Coburn LLP, Title IX Training Series - Materials
People Services                 Insights News & Events Diversity & Inclusion Women's Initiative Offices Firm Careers Subscribe Contact                     Home
Title IX Training Series Materials Below you will find links to the slide decks for each of the Title IX Training Sessions along with a document highlighting the changes that have been made to the rule. For inquiries regarding the Thompson Coburn Title IX Training Series, custom
training and simulations, or other issues relating to Title IX compliance, institutions are welcome to contact Scott Goldschmidt at sgoldschmidt@thompsoncoburn.com or Aaron Lacey at alacey@thompsoncoburn.com.Module 1 – An Introduction to Managing Title IX Sexual Harassment on Campus
Presented by Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron LaceyModule 2 – Formal Complaints of Title IX Sexual HarassmentPresented by Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron LaceyModule 3 – Title IX Investigations & Informal ResolutionsPresented by Susan Lorenc, Scott Goldschmidt and Aaron Lacey  Module 4 – Title IX HearingsPresented by Retired Judge Booker Shaw, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyModule 5 – Title IX DeterminationsPresented by Susan Lorenc, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyModule 6 – Title IX AppealsPresented by Retired Judge Booker Shaw, Scott Goldschmidt, and Aaron LaceyAdditional MaterialsTitle IX ComparisonTitle IX Compliance ChecklistTitle IX Compliance Training Series VideosThese materials are intended for information only and should not be considered legal advice. If you desire legal advice for a particular situation, you should consult an attorney.
Client Access  Disclaimers  Contact  Privacy  TC Remote Attorney Advertising     Chicago  Dallas  Los Angeles  New York  Southern Illinois  St. Louis  Washington, D.C.              Please read before continuing    NOTICE.
Office for Civil Rights Title IX Webinars - Video Playlist
Texas Workforce Commission Vocational Rehabilitation

Title IX Procedure Manual
 


Table of Contents

	Table of Contents	1

	I. INTRODUCTION	3

	A. Purpose	3

	B. Title IX Coordinator	3

	C. Title IX	4

	II. DEFINITIONS	4

	A. Complainant	4

	B. Consent	4

	C. Decision-Maker	4

	D. Document Filed by a Complainant	5

	E. Harassment	5

	F. Respondent	5

	G. Retaliation	5

	H. Sex Offenses, Non-forcible Intercourse	6

	I. Nonconsensual Sexual Contact	6

	J. Sexual Harassment	6

	K. Sexual Misconduct	6

	L. Supportive Measures	7

	M. Title IX	7

	N. Title IX Coordinator	7

	O. CCRC Ombudsman/Title IX Liaison	7

	P. Title IX Sexual Harassment Grievance Procedure	7

	III. REPORTING AND INTAKE PROCEDURES	8

	A. Mandatory Reporting Requirements	8

	Covered Individual Reporting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct and Retaliation	8

	Procedure for Reporting a Complaint	8

	B. Intake and Review of Report	8

	Intake and Review	8

	C. Title IX Sexual Harassment	9

	Formal Complaint	9

	Dismissal of a Formal Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint	9

	D. Student Refusal to Participate in Investigation	10

	E. Failure to Report	10

	F. Interference with Investigation	10

	G. Supportive Measures	10

	IV. CASE PROCEDURES	11

	A. General Guidelines	11

	Special Consideration	11

	B. Informal Resolution of Complaints	11

	C. Notification of Allegations and Interview to the Parties	12

	D. Investigations	13

	Investigation Norms	13

	Investigative Report	14

	Impact of Investigations	14

	E. Determinations	15

	Cases Falling Under Title IX Sexual Harassment–Written Determinations	15

	F. Discipline	15

	G. Resolution Timeframe	16

	H. Appeal Procedures	16

	Making an Appeal Request	16

	Receiving a Decision on an Appeal	17

	I. Recordkeeping	17

	V. LIST OF APPENDICES	17

	A.  Appendix A:	17

	B.  Appendix B:	17

	Appendix A	17

	Appendix B	18



I. INTRODUCTION

A. Purpose

The Title IX Procedure Manual (Manual) outlines the Texas Workforce Commission Vocational Rehabilitation’s (TWC-VR) policies and procedures, which help to provide a safe and secure environment by ensuring that staff know how to promptly and equitably resolve complaints of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and retaliation by students and employees. The Manual also describes the Title IX policy as it relates to the Criss Cole Rehabilitation Center (CCRC) Program Manual. The Agency will not tolerate retaliation against any student or employee as a result of a complaint or report of sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, or any other information provided that is related to a complaint or report being filed. Additionally, no student or employee will tolerate discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct and/or retaliation as a condition of participation in any educational activity or as a condition of employment, all of which are prohibited by CCRC policy and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 USC §1681, et seq.) (Title IX).

B. Title IX Coordinator

The Title IX coordinator is responsible for ensuring that TWC complies with and fulfills its responsibilities under Title IX. The Title IX coordinator must be aware of all complaints and reports, as they will be responsible for addressing any Title IX–related issues. The Title IX coordinator is responsible for the following:

		Coordinating all Title IX investigations according to CCRC policy

		Determining supportive measures, if any, that are necessary to protect student and employee rights

		Coordinating appropriate next steps, including appropriate remedial support for any identified complainants and respondents, required educational program changes, and recommendations of student and/or employee disciplinary measures

		Consulting with other departments, as necessary, to determine appropriate actions in accordance with Title IX and other applicable local, state, and/or federal laws and regulations

		Training TWC stakeholders in understanding Title IX’s policies and procedures 

The Title IX coordinator’s contact information is:

Erin Humphreys

101 E. 15th St. Austin Texas 78778

TitleIX@twc.texas.gov

Contact the US Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights at (800) 421-3481 or ocr@ed.gov with Title IX–related inquiries. 

C. Title IX

Title IX , which states that "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving federal financial assistance," applies to all VR-CCRC educational programs and activities.

		The Title IX coordinator is responsible for ensuring that efforts to comply with and fulfill the responsibilities under Title IX include implementing regulations to investigate, stop, prevent, and remedy discrimination and harassment based on sex or pregnancy status, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and retaliation.

II. DEFINITIONS

A. Complainant

A complainant is the individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment. For purposes of this policy, the term “party” refers to a complainant.

B. Consent

Consent is the informed, freely, and mutually understood words or actions that indicate a willingness to participate in agreed-upon sexual activity. An individual may withdraw consent at any time. There is no consent when there is force, threats, intimidation, or duress. An individual’s lack of verbal or physical resistance or manner of dress does not constitute consent. Consent to past sexual activity with another individual does not constitute consent to future sexual activity with that individual. Consent to engage in sexual activity with one individual does not constitute consent to engage in sexual activity with another individual. An individual cannot consent to sexual activity if such an individual is unable to understand the nature, fact, or extent of the activity or if the individual:

		is incapacitated due to the use or influence of alcohol or drugs;

		is asleep or unconscious;

		is under the legal age to provide consent; or

		has a mental or physical disability that prevents the individual from having the ability or capacity to give consent.

C. Decision-Maker

A decision-maker is an individual who is free from conflicts of interest and biases and who is trained to serve impartially without prejudging the facts at issue. Decision-makers have the authority to determine whether a Title IX policy was violated, the appropriate disciplinary action or sanction was enforced, and whether a complaint was dismissed.

D. Document Filed by a Complainant

A document filed by a complainant is a document or electronic submission (such as by email or through an online portal provided by the school) that contains the complainant's physical or digital signature, or otherwise indicates that the complainant is the individual filing the formal complaint.

E. Harassment

For the purposes of this manual, "harassment" means unwelcome verbal, nonverbal, visual, or physical conduct that is based on an individual's actual or perceived sex (including gender identity) or pregnancy status that is persistent, pervasive, or severe and objectively offensive and unreasonably interferes with, limits, or denies an individual's educational or employment access, benefits, or opportunities. Unwelcome conduct may include, but not be limited to:

bullying; 

intimidation; 

telling offensive jokes; 

referring to an individual by a slur, epithets, or offensive name; 

assault; 

making threats; 

touching; 

ridiculing or mocking; 

insulting or using put-downs;

sharing offensive objects or pictures; 

sharing offensive messages via email, text or social media; 

making sexual advances, requesting sexual favors, or any other sex-based conduct.

F. Respondent 

A respondent is the individual who is reported to be the perpetrator of conduct that could constitute sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment, discrimination, or harassment on the basis of sex. For purposes of this policy, the term “party” refers to a respondent.

G. Retaliation

Retaliation is any action, or attempted action, directly or indirectly, that is taken against any individual, who, in good faith, reports or discloses a violation of the policy, files a complaint, and/or otherwise participates in an investigation, proceedings, complaint, or hearing under this policy. Retaliation includes, but is not limited to, harassment, threats, job termination, adjustment in pay or responsibilities, or impeding academic progress. Actions are considered retaliatory if they have an adverse effect on an individual’s working, academic, or living environment or if they prevent an individual from effectively carrying out their educational responsibilities.

H. Sex Offenses, Non-forcible Intercourse 

Includes the following:

Incest, which is the unforced sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other.

Statutory Rape, which is the unforced sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent of 17 years of age. It is considered statutory rape when the complainant is 17 or 18 years of age and the respondent is in a position of trust or authority, such as a teacher or coach.

I. Nonconsensual Sexual Contact 

Nonconsensual sexual contact is the inappropriate contact of an individual involving the mouth, genital area, inner or upper thigh area, anus, buttocks, breast, neck, or any part of another individual’s body, whether directly or indirectly through clothing.

J. Sexual Harassment

Sexual harassment is any unwelcome or unwanted sexual, sex-based, or gender-based conduct, whether verbal, written, electronic, and/or physical in nature that:

is sufficiently severe or pervasive;

is objectively offensive; 

unreasonably interferes with, denies, or limits an individual's ability to participate or benefit from educational and/or employment opportunities, assessments, or status within VR-CCRC;

is done by an individual who has power or authority over another individual in which submission to such conduct is made explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of educational and/or employment opportunities, participation, assessments, or status within VR-CCRC; or

is considered an instance of sexual assault, as defined in the Clery Act, dating violence, or stalking, as defined in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).

K. Sexual Misconduct

Sexual misconduct is behavior used to obtain sexual gratification against another individual’s will or at the expense of another individual. Sexual misconduct includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, and any nonconsensual sexual conduct that is threatening or discomforting, such as exposing oneself or requesting exposure (whether it be through pictures, emails, chats, and so on) of another individual’s private areas and intimidating the individual against whom such conduct is directed.

L. Supportive Measures

Supportive measures are nonpunitive, non-disciplinary individualized services offered as appropriate, as reasonably available, and without fee or charge to the parties before or after the filing of a formal complaint or where no formal complaint has been filed. Supportive measures are designed to ensure equal educational access, protect safety, and/or deter sexual harassment. 

M. Title IX

Title IX is a federal law that prohibits sex discrimination, including sexual misconduct, in educational programs and institutions that receive federal financial assistance. The law also prohibits retaliation intended to interfere with any right or privilege protected by Title IX.

N. Title IX Coordinator

The VR official responsible for coordinating the school's efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. The Title IX coordinator must be made aware of all reports, as he or she will be responsible for addressing any Office of Civil Rights Title IX complaints or audits. The Title IX coordinator:

		coordinates all Title IX investigations under the Policy;

		determines supportive measures, if any, that are necessary to protect student and employee rights;

		coordinates appropriate next steps including appropriate remedial support for any identified complainants and respondents, educational program changes required, commencement of student discipline and commencement of employee discipline or dismissal;

		consults with other departments as deemed necessary to determine appropriate actions in accordance with Title IX as well as other applicable local, state and federal laws, policies, and collective bargaining agreements;

		conducts trainings for TWC Title IX stakeholders; and

		maintains record-keeping requirements.

O. CCRC Ombudsman/Title IX Liaison

The CCRC ombudsman is the designated official who works in conjunction with the Title IX coordinator to ensure that the TWC’s efforts comply with Title IX’s requirements.

P. Title IX Sexual Harassment Grievance Procedure

The Title IX sexual harassment and grievance procedure consists of the general principles that govern VR-CCRC policy to ensure that the workplace and educational environment are free from sexual harassment.

III. REPORTING AND INTAKE PROCEDURES

A. Mandatory Reporting Requirements

Covered Individual Reporting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct and Retaliation

		Covered individuals include all employees, students, contractors, consultants, vendors, volunteers, visitors, and/or applicants for employment within VR-CCRC. Covered individuals must not engage in any discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, or retaliation against another covered individual while employed by or participating in VR-CCRC educational programs or activities.

		Additionally, covered individuals are required to report all instances of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and retaliation concerns to the Title IX coordinator, whether it involves students or adults or conduct between adults and students.

		Covered individuals must also follow the reporting procedures for all incidents of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and retaliation of which they become aware. Failure to report may result in disciplinary action, including discharge and removal from VR-CCRC educational programs and activities and prohibiting future access to VR-CCRC premises.

Procedure for Reporting a Complaint

		Complaints related to sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, retaliation, and other conduct or harassment of a sexual nature, must be reported to the Title IX coordinator.

B. Intake and Review of Report

Intake and Review

	Once the Title IX coordinator receives a complaint of misconduct covered herein, the coordinator or designee must conduct an intake, review the information received, and determine whether the complaint falls under Title IX jurisdiction. The Title IX coordinator or designee must, at all times, provide support to the parties regardless of whether the complaint falls under Title IX jurisdiction. 

		Jurisdiction applies to conduct that takes place at the location of VR-CCRC educational programs and activities. It may also apply outside of a physical location and to online conduct that affects a substantial VR-CCRC interest. Regardless of where the conduct occurs, the Title IX coordinator or designee must address all allegations to determine whether the conduct continues to affect participants of a VR-CCRC educational program or activity. 

		If the Title IX coordinator has jurisdiction, then the coordinator or designee must reach out to the complainant and provide information about the ability to file a formal complaint under Title IX.

C. Title IX Sexual Harassment

Complaints that fall within the definition of “sexual harassment” are covered by Title IX and will be processed as follows.

Formal Complaint 

		If an incident falls under Title IX’s definition of “sexual harassment,” then a formal complaint must be filed to request that the Title IX coordinator investigate the allegation. A formal complaint is a written document filed by a complainant (or by a parent and/or guardian) or signed by the Title IX coordinator that alleges a Title IX sexual harassment violation against a respondent.

		A formal complaint may be filed in person, by mail, by email, or through the VR3447, Title IX Complaint Form sent to one or more of the following:

		

Title IX coordinator: TitleIX@twc.texas.gov

CCRC ombudsman/Title IX liaison: CCRCTitleIX@twc.texas.gov

Dismissal of a Formal Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint

		Mandatory Dismissal: If any of the following are met, a formal complaint must be dismissed without conducting an investigation under Title IX:

		If a complainant is not participating in or attempting to participate in the educational program or activity of VR-CCRC at the time of filing a formal complaint

		If the conduct did not occur in a VR-CCRC educational program or activity

		If the conduct alleged in the formal complaint does not constitute sexual harassment as defined in Title IX

		Discretionary Dismissal: If any of the following are met, a formal complaint may be dismissed without conducting an investigation under Title IX:

		If a complainant notifies the Title IX coordinator in writing that they want to withdraw the formal complaint, or any allegations therein, at any time during the investigation or hearing

		If the respondent is no longer enrolled in or employed by VR-CCRC

		If circumstances prevent VR-CCRC from gathering sufficient evidence to reach a determination as to the formal complaint or allegations

		Dismissal Notification and Right to Appeal: Both parties must receive a simultaneous notification of complaint dismissal from the decision-maker and have the opportunity to appeal the dismissal determination according to the Appeals section below.

		When a Title IX sexual harassment complaint is dismissed, the complaint must be evaluated for other policy violations, as defined herein, and processed accordingly.

D. Student Refusal to Participate in Investigation 

A student may refuse to participate in an investigation. Despite any refusal, the Title IX coordinator has the discretion to continue to investigate if doing so is not clearly unreasonable given the known circumstances.

E. Failure to Report

An individual who fails to report violations of Title IX is subject to discipline. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the discipline may include discharge and removal from VR-CCRC educational programs and activities and prohibiting future access to the VR-CCRC premises.

F. Interference with Investigation

An individual who interferes with an investigation is subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. Prohibited investigation interference includes:

		attempting to coerce, compel, or prevent an individual from providing testimony or relevant information;

		removing, destroying, or altering documentation relevant to the complaint; and

		knowingly providing false or misleading information to, or withholding information from, the Title IX coordinator, appeals officer, or decision-maker, or encouraging others to do so.

G. Supportive Measures

In all incidents, the Title IX coordinator must coordinate with VR-CCRC worksites to provide the parties with supportive measures, which are nonpunitive, non-disciplinary individualized services offered as appropriate, as reasonably available, and without fee or charge to the parties before or after the filing of a formal complaint or where no formal complaint has been filed. Such measures are designed to restore or preserve access to the VR-CCRC educational programs or activities, without unreasonably burdening the other party, including measures designed to protect the safety of all parties or the educational environment, or deter sexual harassment or other conduct covered herein. Available supportive measures include, but are not limited to, the following:

		Counseling

		Course-related adjustments

		Modifications to work or class schedules

		Campus escort services

		Increased security and monitoring of certain areas of the school or campus

		Mutual restrictions on contact between involved parties

	Connections to external counseling, support, medical and health services, and/or advocacy services

IV. CASE PROCEDURES

A. General Guidelines

The Title IX coordinator must follow the case procedures if they receive a report of discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, and/or retaliation.

Special Consideration

		TWC takes other factors into special consideration, including, but not limited to, the language ability and disability status of students and/or employees, when responding to sexual misconduct incidents, both in the application of case procedures and in the assessment of applicable policies and discipline. 

		Subject to Title IX, after an alleged incident of sexual abuse is accepted for investigation by a law enforcement agency, an alleged victim will not be interviewed by the agency regarding details of the alleged incident of sexual abuse until after the completion of a forensic interview, if such an interview is expected to be conducted.

B. Informal Resolution of Complaints

An informal resolution is available to the parties once a formal complaint has been filed and any time before a determination is made for a Title IX sexual harassment complaint. An informal resolution is used on a case-by-case basis, as determined by TWC and the Title IX coordinator. This option is available only when the complainant and respondent agree to an informal resolution. Usually, a preliminary inquiry will still precede this step to ensure that the case is appropriate for an informal resolution.

		The parties must be provided with a written notice that includes the following:

		A description of the reported misconduct and allegations

		A description of the requirements of the informal resolution process

		A description of the right of the parties to withdraw from the informal resolution process and resume the formal grievance process (However, once the informal resolution process is completed, the parties may not change their minds and revert to a formal grievance process.)

		An explanation of the consequences that may result from participating in the process, including descriptions of sanctions that may result, and records that will be maintained and/or made potentially shareable

		A determination of whether or not the resolution will be binding on the parties

		An informal resolution is necessary in order to pursue the formal process of completing an investigation. Any party participating in an informal resolution may stop the process at any time and request a complete investigation.

		Before conducting an informal resolution, TWC must obtain voluntary, written confirmation that the complainant and respondent want to resolve the matter through an informal resolution.

		If TWC believes that the allegations involve serious misconduct or a pattern of employee misconduct, TWC may be unable to honor a request for confidentiality and/or an informal resolution.

C. Notification of Allegations and Interview to the Parties

The Title IX coordinator or their designee must provide written notice of allegations and interview to the parties before a formal interview takes place. If the allegations change at any point throughout the investigation, a written notice with the additional allegations must be provided again to both parties.

		A Notification of Allegations must include the following:

		Details of the allegation, as follows:

		A summary of the allegations made including the date and location of the alleged incident

		The identities of the parties involved (if known)

		The classification of allegations made, including the conduct that is considered to be sex- and/or gender-based discrimination, sex- and/or gender-based harassment, sexual harassment, and/or sexual misconduct

		The type of investigation that will occur

		The rights of the parties to supportive measures

		TWC and local resources that are available to the parties

		Applicable section of the policies and procedures alleged to have been violated

		A statement that the respondent is presumed to be not responsible for the alleged conduct until a determination is made according to the process outlined herein

		A statement that the parties may have an advisor of their choice, such as an attorney

		A reminder of the expectation of truthfulness in the process, including the consequences of providing false statements or submitting false information

		A statement that the information learned and shared during an investigation must be treated as confidential

		A Notification of Interview must be sent to parties at least four calendar days before the initial interview in order to provide parties with sufficient time to prepare for participation in the interview; however, circumstances may necessitate a shorter or longer time frame.

		The notice must include the following:

		Date

		Time

		Location

		Name of the participants

		Purpose of the investigative interview or meeting

		If the investigation necessitates additional interviews, notification of subsequent interviews will be provided to parties, and the parties may waive the four-calendar-day time frame for preparation.

		The notifications of allegations and interviews may, at TWC’s discretion, be combined into one notice containing all of the required information.

D. Investigations

Investigation Norms

		All investigations, regardless of type, must be conducted in a prompt, thorough, fair, and impartial manner. Information that is protected by privilege must not be used during the investigation unless the party waives the applicable privilege.

		Every investigation must include the following steps, though not necessarily in this order:

		Interviewing all parties and conducting follow-up interviews as needed while notifying the parties of any meeting or interview in advance

		Allowing each party the opportunity to provide any inculpatory and exculpatory evidence and suggest witnesses

		Interviewing all available relevant witnesses and conducting follow-up interviews as necessary

		Completing the investigation as promptly as possible and without unreasonable deviation from the intended timeline 

		Providing the parties with status update notifications every ninety calendar days throughout the investigation

		The following additional steps must be taken in cases falling under Title IX’s sexual harassment:

		The Title IX coordinator or designee must write a comprehensive final report that summarizes the investigation and all witness interviews and addresses all relevant inculpatory and exculpatory evidence.

		A decision-maker must review the material and render a determination of responsibility based upon a preponderance of the evidence standard.

		The following additional steps must be taken in cases falling outside of Title IX’s definition of sexual harassment:

		The Title IX coordinator or designee must write a comprehensive final report that summarizes the investigation and all witness interviews and addresses all relevant inculpatory and exculpatory evidence.

		A decision-maker must review the material and render a determination of responsibility based upon a preponderance of the evidence standard.

		TWC, not the parties, is responsible for the burden of proof and the burden of gathering evidence sufficient to reach a determination regarding responsibility.

Investigative Report

		Any investigation that the Title XI coordinator or designee conducts must result in an investigative report that fully summarizes the investigation and all witness interviews and addresses all relevant inculpatory and exculpatory evidence. Additionally, before completion, the Title IX coordinator or designee must share investigative reports falling under Title IX sexual harassment with the parties and their advisors. Investigative reports falling outside of Title IX sexual harassment must not be shared with the parties before the report is completed. Before completion of the Title IX sexual harassment investigative report, the investigator must send a copy of a draft of the report and any evidence obtained as part of the investigation that is directly related to the allegations made in a formal complaint to each party and their advisor for their review and inspection a copy. The parties must have 10 calendar days to submit a written response, which the investigator must consider before completing the investigative report. After completed, the investigator must provide the finalized investigative report to the parties and their advisors.

Impact of Investigations

		Corrective Action by the School Following a Title IX Report: Employees, vendors, and volunteers may be subject to appropriate corrective action following a non-Title IX investigation and report.

	Employees: Employees who are found to have violated any Title IX policy or applicable law or statute are subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.

		Contractors, Consultants or Vendors: The Office of the General Counsel (OGC) must coordinate with the appropriate individuals within TWC to determine the appropriate disciplinary actions for contractors, consultants, or vendors, which may include debarment.

		Volunteers: OGC must coordinate with the appropriate individuals within TWC to determine the appropriate disciplinary action for volunteers, which may include, but is not limited to, rescinding an individual’s authorization to serve as a volunteer.

		Non-Title IX Investigations: Non-Title IX investigations are not subject to the procedures outlined above for Title IX investigations. Investigations that were initially designated as Title IX investigations but subsequently dismissed will no longer be subject to those procedures as of the date of dismissal.

E. Determinations

The parties must receive a determination regarding responsibility using the preponderance of the evidence standard. Regardless of the outcome of the investigation, TWC must take steps to prevent the recurrence of sexual harassment and all misconduct covered herein and correct any discriminatory effects on all impacted parties as appropriate.

Cases Falling Under Title IX Sexual Harassment–Written Determinations

		After the Title IX coordinator or designee has sent the draft investigative report to the parties, and before reaching a determination regarding responsibility, the decision-maker must:

		give each party the opportunity to submit written, relevant questions that a party wants asked of any party or witness;

		provide each party with the answers to their questions; and

		allow for additional, limited follow-up questions from each party. 

		The decision-maker may determine that a question is not relevant and will explain to the asking party any decision to exclude questions as not relevant. The decision-maker must issue a written determination regarding responsibility using the preponderance of the evidence standard.

		The decision-maker must simultaneously send the written determination in a prompt and equitable manner to inform the parties and their advisors, including the parent and/or guardian of the respondent and complainant, of the following:

		The section of the policies alleged to have been violated

		The findings of fact that support the determination

		The conclusions regarding the application of the findings of fact to the alleged policy violations

		A statement of, and rationale for, the result as to each allegation, including a determination regarding responsibility, any disciplinary sanctions TWC will impose on the respondent, and whether remedies designed to restore or preserve equal access to the VR-CCRC educational program or activity will be provided by the respondent to the complainant

		A description of the procedures for appeal, including the bases upon which the parties may appeal

F. Discipline

		Employees who violate the Title IX policy are subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.

		Students who violate the Title IX policy are subject to disciplinary action under the CCRC Student Handbook.

		Contractors, consultants, or vendors who violate the Title IX policy are subject to removal from and prohibited access to VR-CCRC premises, remedies of law, and/or remedies under their contract, up to and including contract termination.

G. Resolution Timeframe

Investigations must be completed promptly, although some investigations may take weeks or even months to complete, depending on the nature, extent, and complexity of the allegations, availability of witnesses, police involvement, and so on. 

		The Title IX coordinator or designee must make a good faith effort to complete the resolution process, not including appeals and discipline, within a 90-business-day time frame, which may be extended, with notice to the parties as appropriate.

H. Appeal Procedures

		The agency must offer both parties the option to appeal from:

		a determination regarding responsibility; and

		the dismissal of a formal complaint or any allegations within the complaint.

		The scope of appeal rights is determined based on whether the following factors may have changed the determination outcome:

		Procedural irregularity

		Newly discovered evidence 

		Title IX personnel conflict of interest or bias

		Neither the Title IX coordinator nor the decision-maker may also be the appeals officer. 

Making an Appeal Request

		The complainant and respondent may appeal a written determination or dismissal of a formal Title IX sexual harassment complaint through a written request, within five business days of receiving a written determination letter or notification of dismissal. Appeals may be made on any of the following grounds, which must be articulated in the appeal:

		A procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter

		New evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the determination regarding responsibility or dismissal was made that may have affected the outcome of the matter

		The Title IX coordinator, investigator, or decision-maker had a conflict of interest or bias for or against complainants or respondents generally or the individual complainant or respondent that affected the outcome of the matter

		If exigent circumstances exist, then TWC may grant limited extensions. Any party may submit their request in person or by USPS mail to the office address listed below or to the Title IX coordinator.

		Upon receiving an appeal, the appeals officer must notify each party in writing and give the parties an equal opportunity to submit a written statement in support of, or challenging, the determination outcome. The appeals officer must receive each party’s response within five business days. All responses and appeals must be shared with all parties.

Receiving a Decision on an Appeal

		The appeals officer must render a determination promptly but no later than 30 business days of receiving the written request for appeal. The 30-day response time frame may be extended for good cause. The appeals officer must notify both parties of the decision and document that notification. 

I. Recordkeeping

The Title IX coordinator is responsible for maintaining records related to all Title IX complaints. The records must be maintained for seven years and made available by request for each party.

		The records of each complaint may include, but are not limited to, the following information:

		Relevant information related to the complainant, respondent, and identified witnesses

		Name and title of the individual who received the complaint

		Date, time, nature, and location of the reported incident

		Date VR-CCRC became aware of the incident

		Date the Title IX coordinator received notice of the incident

		Interim and supportive measures and resources offered to the parties

		Final investigation reports

		Outcome notification letters that were provided to the parties

		Disciplinary sanctions issued to any individuals found in violation under these procedures

		All materials used to train coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, and informal resolution facilitators regarding sexual harassment and Title IX procedures

V. LIST OF APPENDICES

A.  Appendix A: Student Rights in Investigations

B.  Appendix B: Employee Rights in Investigations

Appendix A

Student Rights in Investigations

When the Title IX coordinator learns about alleged sexual misconduct, an investigation must be undertaken. As part of the investigation, the students involved must give their side of the story about what happened. Based on this information, the Title IX investigators must decide if something “more likely than not” happened, and if it did, VR-CCRC must be notified and respond. Students have the following rights:

		The right to have a prompt, thorough, fair and impartial investigation being conducted

		The right to be heard and to share your experience

		The right to request that the matter be resolved through informal resolution, subject to applicable law (This option is not available when a VR-CCRC employee is the subject of the investigation)

		The right to an advisor of your choice be present during the process, subject to applicable law

		The right to have a support person of your choosing to be in the room with you, subject to applicable law

		The right to let the Title IX investigator know if you do not feel safe

		The right to receive individualized supportive services at your school

		The right to meet somewhere private

		The right to request that the Title IX investigator to keep what you tell as private as possible

		The right to present witnesses, evidence, and information to support your claim, subject to applicable law

		The right to ask for an update on your case

		The right to know the outcome of the investigation

		The right to ask for a review of the outcome of the investigation

		The right to be free from retaliation

Appendix B

Employee Rights in Investigations

VR-CCRC is committed to providing a safe and secure working and learning environment free from discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. When a party files a complaint related to discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, VR-CCRC begins an investigation. The parties related to the complaint have certain rights during the investigation process. Employees’ rights include the following:

		The right to receive a written notice of the investigation

		The right to a prompt, reliable, and equitable resolution of the complaint

		The right to receive individualized supportive services

		The right to be referred to available supportive resources if needed

		The right to have union representation (bargaining unit employees only)

		The right for the process to respect the confidentiality and reputation of all parties to the extent permitted by applicable law

		The right to request that the matter be resolved through informal resolution when appropriate

		The right to present witnesses, evidence, and information to support your position, subject to applicable law

		The right to obtain notification of the time frames for all major stages of the investigation

		The right to be free from retaliation

		The right to file a complaint with a federal, state, or local agency

		The right to receive a written notice of the outcome of the investigationTitle IX Coordinator Training - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Training » Title IX Coordinator Training
Senate Bill 212 and House Bill 1735, 86th Texas Legislature, codified as Texas Education Code (TEC), Chapter 51, Subchapters E-2 and E-3, relate to the reporting of and the development of policies and recommended employee training regarding certain incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking at public and private institutions of higher education in Texas. In accordance with Subchapters E-2 and E-3 and corresponding Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) rules, codified as Texas Administrative Code (TAC), Chapter 3, Subchapter A, the materials included on this web page were developed by the Title IX Training Advisory Committee, which was established by the Board of the THECB in October 2019 (see THECB Rules, TAC, Chapter 1, Subchapter DD).
Materials have been updated as of July 7, 2021, to reflect new forms.
Included on this site are the following:PowerPoint Slide Deck “Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, and Stalking: New State Mandates for Postsecondary Educational Institutions”
This 100-slide PowerPoint slide deck includes all slides developed for purposes of training persons to report certain incidents under TEC, Section 51.252, and for Title IX coordinators and Title IX deputy coordinators of postsecondary institutions in Texas.
View PresentationRecommended Topics for Employee Training
This document includes the training topics and associated slides in the PowerPoint slide deck recommended for: (1) Title IX coordinators/deputies; (2) responsible employees and mandatory reporters; and (3) confidential employees.
Learn MoreCompanion List for PowerPoint Slide Deck
This table includes the numbers and titles of the specific slides in the PowerPoint slide deck recommended for: (1) Title IX coordinators/deputies; (2) responsible employees and mandatory reporters; and (3) confidential employees.
View the Slide DeckChief Executive Officer Certification Form
Please use this THECB-approved form to certify annually by October 31. CEO Certifications should be sent to TIXCEOReport@highered.texas.gov.
These two templates are offered as examples to the Title IX coordinators and chief executive officers of postsecondary institutions for purposes of complying with reporting requirements. The PowerPoint slide deck provides additional training for the sample report templates to be used if desired.
Chief Executive Officer Report Template (Sample)
Report Template Supplemental Training (Slide Deck)
Frequently Asked QuestionsRead the FAQMembers of the Title IX Training Advisory Committee
This document includes the names, titles, and institutional affiliations of the members of the Title IX Training Advisory Committee.
View ListAdditional Training Resources/Materials
These materials include additional training resources that institutions may wish to use at their discretion. Additional resources and materials will be forthcoming.
Inquiries regarding Title IX training should be directed to Cathie Maeyaert.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.

Home - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Leading Texas' FutureThanks for making Higher EDge 2023 a success! Read a recap of this year's premier conference for higher education in Texas.Learn more
Leading Texas' FutureThanks for making Higher EDge 2023 a success! Read a recap of this year's premier conference for higher education in Texas.Learn more
Read more about Building a Talent Strong Texas
The state’s strategic plan for higher education is raising the bar for Texas. We will connect students to credentials that offer opportunities for good jobs and meaningful careers.
Learn more about Empowering Our Students
We help students and their families navigate the path to enrolling in and completing a postsecondary program that enables them to flourish in our world-class economy.
Texas’ economy is changing as our population grows and diversifies. We help Texans remain competitive by earning credentials that align skills with the jobs the workforce demands.
Learn how we are Supporting Our Institutions
We are committed to being a resource, partner, and advocate for advancing all institutions of higher education.
Read more about how we collaborate with our stakeholders
Together with our stakeholders, we accelerate innovations in teaching and learning while bolstering research and development to advance our great state.
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board helps working Texans identify an education path that propels them to lasting careers with greater earning potential and low or no debt.
A new plan for higher education means there’s a place for all Texans in tomorrow’s economy. Learn more about Building a Talent Strong Texas, a refreshed strategy for higher education.
Texas transforms community college financeThanks to HB 8, Texas has a modern and dynamic outcomes-based funding formula based on specific goals aligned with our state’s higher education plan and workforce needs.Learn about the change
Keeping higher education affordableThe THECB offers and sponsors a variety of scholarship programs that help more Texans access and afford a pathway to a better life. These include Texas First, Texas Leadership Scholars, and the Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program.Learn about scholarship programs
Loan repayment for working TexansWe aim to keep college affordable while supporting Texas' critical industries, like nursing, health care, teaching, and public safety.Discover repayment programs
THECB Chair Fred Farias honored by University of North Texas
Institutions Across Texas Recognized by THECB for Building a Talent Strong Texas
With THECB Scholarship Programs, Texans Can Access and Afford College Opportunities
Higher EDge leadership conference to focus on key issues facing higher ed
THECB approves rules implementing community college funding system
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Home » About Us » Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative Linking Education and Workforce: Spurring Economic Growth Across Texas
Governor Greg Abbott established the Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative in March 2016. Through the Initiative, the Commissioners of the Texas Education Agency (TEA), the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), and the Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) work together to help Texas grow in economic prosperity.
Support efficient and flexible pathways to earning degrees, certificates, and other credentials linked to high-wage, in-demand jobs.
Ensure students receive the supports necessary to succeed at all stages of their educations and in their transitions to the workforce.
Create a robust infrastructure for interagency collaboration around common goals, data, and processes to ensure improved student outcomes and meet employers’ needs.
Learn more about the Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative’s state workforce development goals and strategies on its website.
Inquiries should be directed to Amy.Peterson@highered.texas.gov.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Community College Finance
Community College Finance - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Community College Finance
With the passage of House Bill 8 in 2023, Texas is transforming the way it funds community colleges. Texas is moving away from a static system tied primarily to students’ time in class to a modern and dynamic outcomes-based formula that reflects the needs of our world-class economy. For the first time, we will support community colleges based on specific goals aligned with our state’s higher education strategic plan, Building a Talent Strong Texas, as well as regional and state workforce needs.
the number of high school students who complete 15 semester credit hours in dual credit or dual enrollment courses;
community college students who transfer successfully to public four-year universities or complete 15 semester credit hours in a structured co-enrollment program;
and community college students who earn credentials of value, which offer purpose in the economy, value in the labor market, and opportunities for good jobs and meaningful careers.
Significantly, these outcomes will also be weighted to recognize the higher costs of educating students from economically and academically disadvantaged backgrounds and adult learners.
The new Texas community college finance system rewards colleges for their progress toward our state’s higher educational goals while also ensuring colleges have access to the resources needed to support their mission to educate and train the workforce of the future.
On August 22, 2023, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board approved emergency rules enabling the implementation of the new funding system beginning September 1, 2023. The Board also plans to adopt final rules in January for Fiscal Year 2024, and final rules in April 2024 for FY 2025.
FAST ProgramDig into details, requirements, and need-to-knows for the new FAST dual credit program.
Formula FundingRead about updates for base and performance tier funding models.
Frequently Asked QuestionsFind answers to common questions.
Standing Advisory CommitteeFind out about the advisory committee.
November 17, 2022: The Texas Commission on Community College Finance delivered a report recommending significant changes to the way Texas funds its community colleges
July 27, 2023: Standing Advisory Committee members appointed
August 22, 2023: Consideration and adoption of FY 24 emergency rules
September 1, 2023: House Bill 8 went into effect
January 25, 2024: Adoption of FY 24 regular rules
FY 24 CC Funding Model: a public-facing draft model of FY 24 formula and non-formula support funding for public junior colleges (updated July 14, 2023)
FY 24 CC Funding Summary: a PDF of the draft FY 24 formula funding runs for public junior colleges extracted from FY 24 CC Funding Model (updated July 14, 2023)
FY 24 CC Funding 3Pay: a PDF of the draft FY 24 Three-Pay Schedule for public junior colleges extracted from FY 24 CC Funding Model (updated July 14, 2023)
Commissioner Memorandum: Announcing draft formula funding models for FY 24 (July 14, 2023)
Memorandum to CFOs and Reporting Officials: Detailed information on draft FY 24 formula model (July 14, 2023)
Commissioner Memorandum: Important: Community college finance reform – what you need to know (June 8, 2023)
Inquiries regarding Community College Finance should be sent to Amy Peterson, Assistant Commissioner for Government Relations.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Data Submission & Reporting
Data Submission & Reporting - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Data Submission & Reporting
Instruction manuals, portals, and resources for higher education institutions required to submit facilities, financial and student-level data, documents, and reports to the THECB.
As they are added to the system, specified CBM reports must be submitted for processing through the secure THECB EDC Portal. The CBPass login is used for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions.
For more information on using the EDC Portal (CBPass), follow the procedures listed in this guide.
For any reports not yet available through the EDC Portal, CBM reports must be submitted for processing through the secure THECB MOVEit Portal. MOVEit login credentials are provided to specified institutional users. If you do not have these, contact the data analyst assigned to your institution.
For more information on using the MOVEit Portal, follow the procedures listed in this guide.
Reporting manuals, appendices, and other resources for submitting institution and student-level data to the THECB.
Simple listings for institutions to check the status of CBM reports they have submitted to the THECB.
The Texas CIP codes are used to identify degree and certificate programs, courses, and declared majors on the reports and inventories of the THECB.
Reporting portals and resources for submitting institution-level financial documents and reports to the THECB.
Login for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions to access THECB reporting applications.
Community college annual reporting and analysis tool
Community College Annual Reporting and Analysis Tool (CARAT)
Provides the ability to perform analyses and prepare reports based on Texas public community college Annual Financial Reports (AFR) and Annual Investment Reports (AIR).
The THECB collects financial documents from Texas public institutions of higher education, including Legislative Appropriations Requests (LAR), Operating Budgets (BUD), and Annual Financial Reports (AFR).
Report of Fundable Operating Expenses (RFOE)
The THECB uses the data collected in this report to accurately calculate formula funding rates and disbursements.
Reporting portals and resources for submitting facilities reports to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Login for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions to access Integrated Campus Planning System (ICPS).
Integrated Campus Planning System (ICPS)
Tool for THECB to collect all capital planning data from institutions and agencies.
Resources for facilities inventory, CBM data reporting, and facilities audits.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Facilities Resources
Facilities Resources - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Institutional Resources » Other Institutional Resources » Facilities Resources
Facilities resources for Texas public institutions of higher education, including, where applicable, general academic institutions, health-related institutions, and community, state, and technical colleges.
Building Replacement Estimate Reports
The Building Replacement Estimate Report (formerly Campus Condition Index) provides an overall estimate of the campus’ buildings replacement cost when considering the campus’ deferred maintenance needs. Learn More
The THECB collects and reports information on the capital expenditure plans of public universities, health-related institutions, state, and technical colleges. Learn More
THECB Space Projection Models provide an assessment of space needs at Texas’ public universities, health-related institutions, and state and technical colleges. Learn More
Detail reports statewide and by Texas public higher education institution showing utilization of classroom and class laboratory space. Learn More
Average project construction costs are provided by facility type for Texas public universities and health-related institutions. Learn More
Search Facilities Inventory for buildings at selected higher education institutions. Learn More
Search Facilities Inventory for rooms at selected higher education institutions. Learn More
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Institutional Funding Resources
Institutional Funding Resources - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Institutional Funding Resources
Funding resources for Texas public institutions of higher education, including, where applicable, general academic institutions, health-related institutions, and community, state, and technical colleges.
Overviews providing summaries of how the state of Texas appropriates the majority of funds to state agencies and institutions of higher education through a biennial General Appropriations Act. Also includes analysis that estimates the allocation of appropriations using the information reported by the institutions to the THECB. Learn More
Sources and Uses reports provide annual financial report information by fund group for Texas public institutions of higher education (excluding community colleges). Excel workbooks for Sources and Uses and Research Expenditures are also provided by institution type. Learn More
Community College Financial Condition Report
An overall financial health analysis of Texas public community colleges intended as a general financial evaluation. Learn More
Includes General Academic Institutions Expenditure Study and Community and Technical Colleges Report of Fundable Operating Expenses. Learn More
The Board is mandated to present formula funding recommendations to the Legislative Budget Board on June 1 of even years. Learn More
Tuition and fees data are provided by Texas public higher education institution type. Learn More
A report and associated data in relation to General Appropriations Act, Senate Bill 1, Article III, Section 63, 87th Texas Legislature, Regular Session that requires the Legislative Budget Board and the Coordinating Board to produce a report on COVID-19 related federal aid money to public institutions of higher education. Learn More
Resources used for specific programs that could eliminate, reduce, or waive tuition and fees for individuals who meet certain eligibility criteria while attending public institutions of higher education in Texas.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Higher Education Data
Your Source for Texas Higher Education Data - THECB Data
The primary source for data, statistics, and information on higher education in the state.
Expanding Enrollment Across Communities and Institutions
Texas has set ambitious goals in the past, and we are not backing away from them — instead, we’re raising the bar. Our new strategic plan, Building a Talent Strong Texas, will focus on three measurable, data-driven goals:
Building a Talent Strong Texas expands attainment to include all working-age Texans. In doing so, we can increase employment opportunities and income for individuals, create a deeper talent pool for employers, and align students’ skills with workforce demands.
60% of Texans ages 25-64 will receive a degree, certificate, or other postsecondary credential of value by 2030.
Credentials from Texas institutions of higher education must propel graduates into lasting, successful careers. These careers must equip them for continued learning and greater earning potential, with low or manageable debt.
550,000 students will complete postsecondary credentials of value each year.
95% of students will graduate with no undergraduate student debt or manageable levels of debt in relation to their potential earnings.
Texas must be a leading state in generating knowledge through basic and applied research, and translating that research to innovations, discoveries, and economic development. This requires close partnership among key stakeholders to drive Texas’ economy.
Increase of $1 billion in annual private and federal research and development expenditures by 2030.
7,500 research doctorates awarded annually by Texas institutions of higher education.
Can’t find what you’re looking for? We’re working hard to add more reports and visualizations to this site. If you’re having trouble finding something, you can still access data on our TXHigherEdData (THED) website.
Explore the state’s progress toward our goals for higher education. The THECB Accountability System provides detailed data on the state of higher education in Texas and tracks performance on critical measures.
The almanac provides annual profiles of state and institutional performance. Profiles are created using data and metrics collected by THECB on pre-college and higher education students.
Copyright © 2023 - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. All Rights Reserved.
We value your privacy. This site uses cookies and similar technologies to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By Accept All, you consent to all the cookies.  However, you may modify the cookie settings in your chosen browser for a more controlled consent.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
THECB Accountability System
Texas Higher EducationAccountability System
Measures & Definitions
PUBLIC TWO-YEAR COLLEGES
All Public Two-Year Colleges
Texas State Technical Colleges and Lamar State Colleges
PUBLIC HEALTH-RELATED INSTITUTIONS
NON-TEXAS & CAREER INSTITUTIONS
Four-Year Institutions
Select an institution or group
Create Complete Report (PDF)
Under Resources above, see our
for the latest important information.
Select a category below to see related measures for :
Selected Data for All Public Two-Year Colleges
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 N. Congress Ave. Suite 12.200, Austin, TX 78701 | Main: 512-427-6101
Institutional Online Resumes
Resumes - THECB Applications
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Return to Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
First, select an institution type, institution and year.
Universities (TX public)
Two-year Institutions (TX public)
Health-Related Institutions (TX public)
Four-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Two-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Next, select the report type that fits your needs.
The link for Prospective Students, Parents and the Public gives data on institutional enrollments, student costs, and measures of student success.
Prospective Students, Parents and the Public
Legislators and Other Policy Makers
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 N. Congress Ave. Suite 12.200 Austin, Texas 78701
PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788
Main: 512-427-6101 || Fax: 512-427-6127
Student Loans: 800-242-3062
Institutional Online Resume
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2021 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
Published Reports
Published Reports - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Empowering our Students
Equipping our Workforce
Partnering with Policymakers
Supporting our Institutions
Community College Finance
Data Submission & Reporting
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Data
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Institutional Online Resumes
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
THECB Quarterly Board Meetings
THECB Board Committee Meetings
Governing Board Training
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Home » Explore Our Data » Published Reports
The published reports is the centralized location for all reports published by the THECB. You can search the reports collection by title, category, or year below:
60x30TX Progress Report
Academic Course Guide Manual
Advisory Committee Agendas
Advisory Committee Minutes
Advisory Committee Supporting Documents
Agency Strategic Plan
Annual Financial Report
Annual Financial Report Manual
Annual Internal Audit Reports
Architecture & Construction
Basis of Legislative Appropriations
Blank Forms / Templates
Board Supporting Documents
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Building Replacement Estimate
Capital Expenditure Plans
Career & Technical Education
Closing the Gaps Progress Report
Commissioner Correspondence
Committee Supporting Documents
Community and Technical Colleges
Compliance Monitoring Plans
Compliance Monitoring Reports
Departmental Correspondence
Developmental Ed Data
Developmental Education
Distance Ed Data Universities
Faculty Salaries Universities
Financial Condition Report
Formula Advisory Committee
Four-Year Institutions (not TX Public)
General Academic Institutions
General Correspondence
Health Related Institutions
HS Grads College Matriculation
HS Grads Enrolled District
HS Grads Enrolled High School
HS Grads Preparation TSI
HS Grads Preparation TSIA
Independent Colleges & Universities
Institutional Audience
Internal Audit Reports
Legislative Appropriations Request
Legislative Budget Board
Legislator/Government
Nursing Shortage Reduction Program
Perkins Core Indicator Data
Perkins Data Resources
Perkins Equitable Access and Opportunity Program
Policies & Procedures
Regional Data By Region
Regional Data By Topic
Report of Fundable Operating Expenses
Reports & Studies (Non-Fiscal)
Request for Applications
Research Expenditures
RFO / RFP / RFQ / RFA
Sources and Uses Detail
Sources and Uses Report
Sources and Uses Research
Space Projection Model
State Leadership Grant
Student Migration Report
Texas Research Incentive Program
Texas Success Initiative
Two-Year Institutions (not TX Public)
Undergraduate Applicants
Can't find what you are looking for? Please visit our
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 Congress Ave. Suite 12.200
Austin, TX 78711-2788
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Student Loans: 800-242-3062
Helpful LinksAccessibility
Institutional Online Resume
About Texas.govTexas.gov
Texas Homeland Security
Texas Veterans Portal
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Empowering our Students
Equipping our Workforce
Partnering with Policymakers
Supporting our Institutions
Community College Finance
Data Submission & Reporting
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Data
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Institutional Online Resumes
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
THECB Quarterly Board Meetings
THECB Board Committee Meetings
Governing Board Training
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Higher EDge 2023
Higher EDge 2023 - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Thank you for helping make 2023 incredible!
This year had it all – exciting programming, the first ever EDge Expo, and insightful connections between higher ed, business, philanthropy, and other sectors! We enjoyed celebrating the 88th Texas Legislature’s historic investment in higher education and the innovative programs and changes that came from it. Now is the time to seize on these opportunities by transcending the traditional pace of change.
This year’s conference featured programming on artificial intelligence, tech transfer, student success and advising, innovations in digital learning, and more. It also included an address by Texas Governor Greg Abbott, who touted the establishment of the Texas University Fund and community college finance legislation and what these efforts mean for the continued success of the state’s economy.
Our 2023 Star Award recipients are Houston Community College, Texas Southmost College, Texas A&M University, and University of North Texas. We celebrated our five recipients and their accomplishments and contributions to the goals of Building a Talent Strong Texas.
Commissioner Keller delivered his annual The State of Higher Education address and told higher education, industry, and philanthropic leaders that they must transcend the traditional pace of change to meet Texas’ needs and ensure we stay competitive throughout the 21st century.
If you would like to view or share a recording of Commissioner Keller’s The State of Higher Education address, you may do so on the THECB YouTube channel. A transcript of the speech is also available.
We hope you enjoyed every minute of Higher EDge and thank you for making it another great year to look back on!
We can’t wait to welcome you back next year on December 12-13, 2024.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Governing Board Training
Governing Board Member Training - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Training » Governing Board Member Training
Texas Education Code (Sections 61.084 and 61.0841) and the Texas Government Code (Title 5, Subtitle A, Chapters 551 and 552, and Title 10, Subtitle F, Chapter 2256) require certain training for governing board members of Texas public institutions and systems of higher education. For your convenience, we have compiled a summary of training requirements to assist new governing board members in complying with these requirements. Links to the required training can be found below.
The THECB provides an online orientation course for newly appointed regents and elected trustees for whom attendance at the annual seminar held in Austin would be a hardship; orientation must be completed during the member’s first year of service as a member of a governing board.
Instructions for Completing the Registration and Training Process for Regent/Trustee Online Training
Certificate of completion will not be issued until the registration fee has been received.
Complete the electronic registration form and submit payment (credit card or electronic check only).
View the training videos Community College or University.
When you have watched the training videos, click the button at the foot of the video page to request your certificate of completion.
If you have questions regarding this online training, please contact Mary Mitchell at GBOnlineTraining@highered.texas.gov.
Note: The videos are accessed by clicking on the “Community College” or “University” links above (see step 3).
For Appointed Members of Governing BoardsIntensive Short Course
Before voting on a budgetary or personnel matter, each governing board member who holds an appointive position and whose first year of service on the governing board begins on or after January 1, 2016, must complete the intensive short orientation course that includes best practices and transparency in trusteeship and governance.
Instructions for Completing the Intensive Short Course
When you have watched the video, complete the assessment found at Intensive Short Course Assessment.
Upon completion of the assessment, send a notification email to Mary Mitchell at GBOnlineTraining@highered.texas.gov. A certificate will be issued upon successful completion.
Higher Education Leadership ConferenceIn-Person Event
The THECB conducts an annual orientation seminar in Austin for newly appointed regents and elected trustees; orientation must be completed during the member’s first year of service as a member of a governing board.
Additional Training Requirements & Sources of InformationResources
Information for members of governing boards regarding open meetings, open records, and public funds investment training.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Public Testimony - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) generally holds its regular meetings on the fourth Thursday of every January, April, July, and October. Board committee meetings are generally held the fourth Wednesday of every January, April, July, and October. Notice is provided in advance of the time and location of all public meetings through the Texas Register.
Written testimony, in lieu of oral testimony, may be submitted by mail, fax (downloadable Word document) or online using the public testimony forms. Deadline to submit written testimony is 24 hours prior to the meeting. Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the presiding chair. All written testimony will be publicly posted to the THECB website.
Registering to testify: Individuals wishing to testify must register via mail, fax, online using the online public testimony form, or by contacting Mary Mitchell at 512-427-6566 or Mary.Mitchell@highered.texas.gov at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the presiding chair.
Order of testimony: The order of public testimony shall be in the order in which individuals signed up to speak on the various agenda items. The presiding chair shall designate whether oral public testimony shall be taken at the beginning of the meeting, at the time the related item is taken up by the Board after staff has presented the item, or any other time as determined by the presiding chair. Individuals may only provide testimony relating to an item on the agenda.
Time limits: Testimony by individuals and organizations is limited to three minutes, unless otherwise stated in advance by the presiding chair. Only one representative per organization will be allowed to speak.
Testifying: Individuals testifying are asked to state their name and organization (if applicable) for the record. When called to testify, individuals must begin their testimony by stating “For the record my name is ______ and I am representing _______.”
Providing handouts to supplement oral testimony: When a person is called to testify, he/she shall provide one copy of the handout(s), if any, to THECB staff. If individuals wish to provide the handout(s) to all Board members, 10 additional copies must be provided to THECB staff for distribution.
Special accommodations: Individuals who may require auxiliary aids or services for this meeting should contact Glenn Tramel, ADA Coordinator, at 512-427-6193 or Glenn.Tramel@highered.texas.gov at least five days before the meeting so that appropriate arrangements can be made.
Inquiries regarding public testimony should be directed to Mary Mitchell.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
News & Media
News & Media - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Media ReleasesTHECB Chair Fred Farias honored by University of North TexasDecember 19, 2023
Media ReleasesInstitutions Across Texas Recognized by THECB for Building a Talent Strong TexasDecember 12, 2023
Media ReleasesHigher EDge leadership conference to focus on key issues facing higher edNovember 30, 2023
Media ReleasesTHECB approves rules implementing community college funding systemSeptember 07, 2023
Media ReleasesNew online tool aims to close skills gap and help more Texans plan for their futureAugust 28, 2023
Media ReleasesTHECB wins 2023 Exceptional Agency AwardAugust 07, 2023
THECB NewsWith THECB Scholarship Programs, Texans Can Access and Afford College OpportunitiesNovember 30, 2023
THECB NewsMy Texas Future: Because Texas Students’ Future Is Our FutureAugust 28, 2023
THECB NewsA New Plan for Community College Funding to Fuel Texas’ Economic SuccessAugust 09, 2023
THECB NewsThe 88th Legislature: A Texas-sized Investment in Higher EducationJune 06, 2023
Strategic PlanBoard & CommissionerBoard MeetingsTexas Higher Education DataTexas Higher Education AlmanacContact:
mike.eddleman@highered.texas.gov
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Home
Home - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Leading Texas' FutureThanks for making Higher EDge 2023 a success! Read a recap of this year's premier conference for higher education in Texas.Learn more
Leading Texas' FutureThanks for making Higher EDge 2023 a success! Read a recap of this year's premier conference for higher education in Texas.Learn more
Read more about Building a Talent Strong Texas
The state’s strategic plan for higher education is raising the bar for Texas. We will connect students to credentials that offer opportunities for good jobs and meaningful careers.
Learn more about Empowering Our Students
We help students and their families navigate the path to enrolling in and completing a postsecondary program that enables them to flourish in our world-class economy.
Texas’ economy is changing as our population grows and diversifies. We help Texans remain competitive by earning credentials that align skills with the jobs the workforce demands.
Learn how we are Supporting Our Institutions
We are committed to being a resource, partner, and advocate for advancing all institutions of higher education.
Read more about how we collaborate with our stakeholders
Together with our stakeholders, we accelerate innovations in teaching and learning while bolstering research and development to advance our great state.
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board helps working Texans identify an education path that propels them to lasting careers with greater earning potential and low or no debt.
A new plan for higher education means there’s a place for all Texans in tomorrow’s economy. Learn more about Building a Talent Strong Texas, a refreshed strategy for higher education.
Texas transforms community college financeThanks to HB 8, Texas has a modern and dynamic outcomes-based funding formula based on specific goals aligned with our state’s higher education plan and workforce needs.Learn about the change
Keeping higher education affordableThe THECB offers and sponsors a variety of scholarship programs that help more Texans access and afford a pathway to a better life. These include Texas First, Texas Leadership Scholars, and the Texas Armed Services Scholarship Program.Learn about scholarship programs
Loan repayment for working TexansWe aim to keep college affordable while supporting Texas' critical industries, like nursing, health care, teaching, and public safety.Discover repayment programs
THECB Chair Fred Farias honored by University of North Texas
Institutions Across Texas Recognized by THECB for Building a Talent Strong Texas
With THECB Scholarship Programs, Texans Can Access and Afford College Opportunities
Higher EDge leadership conference to focus on key issues facing higher ed
THECB approves rules implementing community college funding system
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Our Work
Our Work - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board is a partner, resource, and advocate to higher education institutions across the state.
We work in partnership with the legislature, businesses, and other key stakeholders to ensure our state’s higher education goals are aligned with our state’s economic and talent needs.  We are a steward to the state’s strategic plan for higher education, Building a Talent Strong Texas.
And we help Texas students and families access the tools they need to choose a postsecondary pathway while connecting them to financial resources to support them on that pathway. We also help ensure transitions – from high school to postsecondary, between postsecondary institutions, and from postsecondary into the workforce – are efficient.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Supporting Our Institutions
Supporting Our Institutions - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas is preparing more students to join the workforce and drive the economy than ever before. Our colleges and universities are critical partners in this effort, from public two-year technical and community colleges to four-year institutions and independent colleges and universities.
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board is a resource, partner, and advocate for institutions of higher education and the more than 1.3 million students they serve. Our support is wide ranging:
Providing student financial aid and institutional grants
Collecting and disseminating digital learning resources
Delivering training for institutional and systems leaders
Overseeing, collecting, and synthesizing data from institutions so we can see how Texas is meeting its higher-ed goals
We are proud to support Texas colleges and universities in developing talent that drives the economy and accelerates innovation. With a focus on student equity, access, and success, we are working together to ensure all Texans can participate in, benefit from, and contribute to the unique opportunities of our great state.
Click for more information about our role overseeing the development of new programs and changes to existing programs, as well as periodically reviewing existing programs.
Click to view instruction manuals, portals, and resources for institutions required to submit data, documents, reports, and more. We collect and report facilities, financial, and student-level data.
Click to learn about the leadership, guidance, expertise, and resources we provide to improve quality and efficiency in higher education across Texas, including resources related to academic standards and policies, transfer resources, and more.
Click to read about programs of study, which align academic standards in college and career readiness and career and technical education with the knowledge, skills, and abilities students are expected to demonstrate.
Click to learn more about resources we provide to support innovation and commercialization efforts at higher education institutions across Texas, including a statewide plan focused on technology transfer, innovation ecosystems, and foundational supports for innovation.
Click to access a forms portal developed by THECB where institutions can submit documentation for various legislative requirements.
Click to learn about our efforts to advocate and provide leadership for digital learning in higher education. Our resources include OERTX, an online repository of free open educational resources for Texas educators and students.
Click for information about the training opportunities we provide, both in person and virtually, to support our institutional and system leaders, including Title IX training and training for governing board members.
Click to learn more about how House Bill 8 transformed the way Texas’ community colleges are funded, moving to a modern and dynamic outcomes-based formula that reflects the needs of our world-class economy.
Click to view the grant and funding opportunities available from THECB to a wide range of partners, including public universities and colleges, Texas hospitals, and other eligible entities.
Click to learn about the funding we provide for Texas public institutions of higher education, including, where applicable, general academic institutions, health-related institutions, and community, state, and technical colleges.
Click to learn more about funding efforts for scientific research at higher education institutions. This research is vital for developing knowledge that leads to groundbreaking innovations. Investing in and expanding research is one of our strategic goals.
Click to learn about our Office of Student Financial Aid Programs, through which we administer state financial aid programs. We aim to deliver excellent customer service and provide training for Texas students, borrowers, and institutions of higher education.
Explore the OERTX Repository, a collection of online, open educational resources. Create OER and collaborate with educators.
Please send a question online using the button below and someone will respond as soon as possible!
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
Training
Training - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Training
Texas Education Code (Sections 61.084 and 61.0841) and the Texas Government Code (Title 5, Subtitle A, Chapters 551 and 552, and Title 10, Subtitle F, Chapter 2256) requires certain training for governing board members of Texas public institutions and systems of higher education. For your convenience, we have compiled a summary of training requirements to assist new governing board members in complying with these requirements summary of training requirements [PDF].
Senate Bill (SB) 212 and House Bill (HB) 1735, 86th Texas Legislature, codified as Texas Education Code (TEC), Chapter 51, Subchapters E-2 and E-3, relate to the reporting of and the development of policies and recommended employee training regarding certain incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking at public and private institutions of higher education in Texas.  In accordance with the new subchapters of the TEC and newly adopted Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) rules (Texas Administrative Code (TAC), Chapter 3, Subchapter A), the materials included on this web page were developed by the Title IX Training Advisory Committee, which was established by the Board of the THECB in October 2019 (see THECB Rules, TAC, Chapter 1, Subchapter DD).
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Senate Bill 212
S.B. ANo.A212
AN ACT
relating to a reporting requirement for certain incidents of sexualharassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking at certain
public and private institutions of higher education; creating a
criminal offense; authorizing administrative penalties.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:SECTION
A1.AAChapter 51, Education Code, is amended by adding
Subchapter E-2 to read as follows:
SUBCHAPTER E-2. REPORTING INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL
ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKING
Sec. A51.251. AADEFINITIONS. In this subchapter:
(1)AA"Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board.
(2)AA"Dating violence," "sexual assault," and
"stalking" mean dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as
applicable, that an institution of higher education is required to
report under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy
and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)).
(3)AA"Employee of a postsecondary educational
institution" does not include a student enrolled at the
institution.
(4)AA"Postsecondary educational institution" means an
institution of higher education or a private or independent
institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by1
23
4
56789
10
11
121314151617
18
192021222324
1Section 61.003 .
(5)AA"Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based
verbal or physical conduct that:
(A)AAin the employment context, unreasonably
interferes with a person ’s work performance or creates an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or
(B)AAin the education context, is sufficiently
severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a
student ’s ability to participate in or benefit from educational
programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. A51.252. AAREPORTING REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS.
(a)AAAn employee of a postsecondary educational institution who, in
the course and scope of employment, witnesses or receives
information regarding the occurrence of an incident that the
employee reasonably believes constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, or stalking and is alleged to have been
committed by or against a person who was a student enrolled at or an
employee of the institution at the time of the incident shall
promptly report the incident to the institution ’s Title IX
coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator.
(b)AAExcept as provided by Subsection (c), the report must
include all information concerning the incident known to the
reporting person that is relevant to the investigation and, if
applicable, redress of the incident, including whether an alleged
victim has expressed a desire for confidentiality in reporting the
incident.
(c)AAAn employee of a postsecondary educational institution1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
2designated by the institution as a person with whom students may
speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, or stalking or who receives information regarding
such an incident under circumstances that render the employee ’s
communications confidential or privileged under other law shall, in
making a report under this section, state only the type of incident
reported and may not include any information that would violate a
student ’s expectation of privacy. This subsection does not affect
the employee ’s duty to report an incident under any other law.
(d)AANotwithstanding Subsection (a), a person is not
required to make a report under this section concerning:
(1)AAan incident in which the person was a victim of
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking; or
(2)AAan incident of which the person received
information due to a disclosure made at a sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, or stalking public awareness event
sponsored by a postsecondary educational institution or by a
student organization affiliated with the institution.
Sec. A51.253. AAADMINISTRATIVE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
(a)AANot less than once every three months, the Title IX
coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall
submit to the institution ’s chief executive officer a written
report on the reports received under Section 51.252, including
information regarding:
(1)AAthe investigation of those reports;
(2)AAthe disposition, if any, of any disciplinary
processes arising from those reports; and1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
3(3)AAthe reports for which the institution determined
not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any.
(b)AAThe Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator
of a postsecondary educational institution shall immediately
report to the institution ’s chief executive officer an incident
reported to the coordinator under Section 51.252 if the coordinator
has cause to believe that the safety of any person is in imminent
danger as a result of the incident.
(c)AASubject to Subsection (d), at least once during each
fall or spring semester, the chief executive officer of a
postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the
institution ’s governing body and post on the institution ’s Internet
website a report concerning the reports received under Section
51.252. The report:
(1)AAmay not identify any person; and
(2)AAmust include:
(A)AAthe number of reports received under Section
51.252;
(B)AAthe number of investigations conducted as a
result of those reports;
(C)AAthe disposition, if any, of any disciplinary
processes arising from those reports;
(D)AAthe number of those reports for which the
institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if
any; and
(E)AAany disciplinary actions taken under Section
51.255.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
4(d)AAIf for any semester a postsecondary educational
institution has fewer than 1,500 enrolled students, the chief
executive officer of the institution shall submit and post a report
required under Subsection (c) for that semester only if more than
five reports were received under Section 51.252 during that
semester.
Sec. A51.254. AAIMMUNITIES. (a) AAA person acting in good
faith who reports or assists in the investigation of a report of an
incident described by Section 51.252(a) or who testifies or
otherwise participates in a disciplinary process or judicial
proceeding arising from a report of such an incident:
(1)AAis immune from civil liability, and from criminal
liability for offenses punishable by fine only, that might
otherwise be incurred or imposed as a result of those actions; and
(2)AAmay not be subjected to any disciplinary action by
the postsecondary educational institution at which the person is
enrolled or employed for any violation by the person of the
institution ’s code of conduct reasonably related to the incident
for which suspension or expulsion from the institution is not a
possible punishment.
(b)AASubsection (a) does not apply to a person who
perpetrates or assists in the perpetration of the incident reported
under Section 51.252.
Sec. A51.255. AAFAILURE TO REPORT OR FALSE REPORT; OFFENSES.
(a)AAA person commits an offense if the person:
(1)AAis required to make a report under Section 51.252
and knowingly fails to make the report; or1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
5(2)AAwith the intent to harm or deceive, knowingly
makes a report under Section 51.252 that is false.
(b)AAAn offense under Subsection (a) is a Class B
misdemeanor, except that the offense is a Class A misdemeanor if it
is shown on the trial of the offense that the actor intended to
conceal the incident that the actor was required to report under
Section 51.252.
(c)AAA postsecondary educational institution shall terminate
the employment of an employee whom the institution determines in
accordance with the institution ’s disciplinary procedure to have
committed an offense under Subsection (a).
Sec. A51.256. AACONFIDENTIALITY. (a) AAUnless waived in
writing by the alleged victim, the identity of an alleged victim of
an incident reported under Section 51.252:
(1)AAis confidential and not subject to disclosure
under Chapter 552, Government Code; and
(2)AAmay be disclosed only to:
(A)AApersons employed by or under contract with
the postsecondary educational institution to which the report is
made who are necessary to conduct an investigation of the report or
any related hearings;
(B)AAa law enforcement officer as necessary to
conduct a criminal investigation of the report;
(C)AAthe person or persons alleged to have
perpetrated the incident, to the extent required by other law; or
(D)AApotential witnesses to the incident as
necessary to conduct an investigation of the report.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
6(b)AAA disclosure under Subsection (a) is not a voluntary
disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007 , Government Code.
(c)AANothing in this section may be construed as prohibiting
a victim from making a report to a law enforcement agency using the
pseudonym form described by Article 57.02 , Code of Criminal
Procedure.
Sec. A51.257. AARETALIATION PROHIBITED. (a) AAA postsecondary
educational institution may not discipline or otherwise
discriminate against an employee who in good faith:
(1)AAmakes a report as required by Section 51.252; or
(2)AAcooperates with an investigation, a disciplinary
process, or a judicial proceeding relating to a report made by the
employee as required by Section 51.252.
(b)AASubsection (a) does not apply to an employee who:
(1)AAreports an incident described by Section 51.252(a)
perpetrated by the employee; or
(2)AAcooperates with an investigation, a disciplinary
process, or a judicial proceeding relating to an allegation that
the employee perpetrated an incident described by Section
51.252(a).
Sec. A51.258. AACOMPLIANCE. (a) AAThe chief executive officer
of each postsecondary educational institution shall annually
certify in writing to the coordinating board that the institution
is in substantial compliance with this subchapter.
(b)AAIf the coordinating board determines that a
postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial
compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
7an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not
to exceed $2 million. In determining the amount of the penalty, the
coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and
the number of students enrolled at the institution.
(c)AAIf the coordinating board assesses an administrative
penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under
Subsection (b), the coordinating board shall provide to the
institution written notice of the coordinating board ’s reasons for
assessing the penalty.
(d)AAA postsecondary educational institution assessed an
administrative penalty under Subsection (b) may appeal the penalty
in the manner provided by Chapter 2001 , Government Code.
(e)AAA postsecondary educational institution may not pay an
administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (b) using state or
federal money.
(f)AAAn administrative penalty collected under this section
shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund
established under Section 420.008 , Government Code.
(g)AAThe coordinating board shall annually submit to the
governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives, and the standing legislative committees with
primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at
postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding
compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the
postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in
substantial compliance as provided by this section and any
penalties assessed under this section during the calendar year1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
8preceding the date of the report.
Sec. A51.259. AARULES. The coordinating board shall adopt
rules as necessary to implement and enforce this subchapter,
including rules that ensure implementation of this subchapter in a
manner that complies with federal law regarding confidentiality of
student educational information, including the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g). In
adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the
negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008 , Government
Code, and consult with relevant stakeholders.
Sec. A51.260. AATRAINING ADVISORY COMMITTEE. (a) AAThe
commissioner of higher education shall establish an advisory
committee to develop recommended training for persons required to
report certain incidents under Section 51.252 and for Title IX
coordinators and deputy Title IX coordinators at postsecondary
educational institutions.
(b)AAThe advisory committee consists of nine members
appointed by the commissioner of higher education as follows:
(1)AAeight members who are a chief executive officer of
a postsecondary educational institution or a representative
designated by that officer; and
(2)AAone member who is a representative of an advocacy
organization for victims of sexual assault or family violence.
(c)AANot later than December 1, 2019, the advisory committee
shall develop the recommended training under Subsection (a).
(d)AAThis section expires September 1, 2020.
SECTION A2.AASection 61.0331, Education Code, is amended to1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
9read as follows:
Sec. A61.0331. AANEGOTIATED RULEMAKING REQUIRED. The board
shall engage institutions of higher education in a negotiatedrulemaking process as described by Chapter 2008, Government Code,
when adopting a policy, procedure, or rule relating to:
(1)
AAan admission policy regarding the common admission
application under Section 51.762, a uniform admission policy under
Section 51.807, graduate and professional admissions under Section
51.843, or the transfer of credit under Section 61.827;
(2)AAthe allocation or distribution of funds, including
financial aid or other trusteed funds under Section 61.07761;
(3)AAthe reevaluation of data requests under Section
51.406; [or ]
(4)AAcompliance monitoring under Section 61.035 ; or
(5)AAthe reporting of certain incidents of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking under
Subchapter E-2, Chapter 51.
SECTION A3.AASection 420.008(b), Government Code, is amended
to read as follows:
(b)AAThe fund consists of :
(1)AAfees collected under:
(A)A[(1) ]AAArticle 42A.653(a), Code of Criminal
Procedure;
(B)A[(2) ]AASection 508.189, Government Code; and
(C)A[(3) ]AASubchapter B, Chapter 102, Business &
Commerce Code, and deposited under Section 102.054 of that code;
and1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
222324252627S.B.
ANo.A212
10(2)AAadministrative penalties collected under Section
51.258, Education Code.
SECTION A4.AASections 51.251-51.259, Education Code, as added
by this Act, and Section 61.0331, Education Code, as amended by this
Act, apply beginning January 1, 2020.
SECTION A5.AANot later than January 1, 2021, the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board shall submit its initial report
required under Section 51.258(g), Education Code, as added by thisAct.
SECTION
A6.AA(a)AAExcept as provided by Subsections (b) and
(c) of this section, this Act takes effect September 1, 2019.
(b)AASection 51.260, Education Code, as added by this Act,
takes effect immediately if this Act receives a vote of two-thirds
of all the members elected to each house, as provided by Section 39,
Article III, Texas Constitution. If this Act does not receive thevote necessary for immediate effect, Section 51.260, EducationCode, as added by this Act, takes effect September 1, 2019.
(c)
AASection 51.255(a), Education Code, as added by this Act,
takes effect January 1, 2020.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
1516171819S.B.
ANo.A212
11______________________________ ______________________________
President of the Senate AAAAAAAAAAAAA Speaker of the House
I hereby certify that S.B. ANo.A212 passed the Senate on
March A26,A2019, by the following vote: AAYeas A31, Nays A0.
______________________________
AAAA Secretary of the Senate
I hereby certify that S.B. ANo.A212 passed the House on
MayA22,A2019, by the following vote: AAYeas A128, Nays A13, three
present not voting.
______________________________
AAAA Chief Clerk of the House
Approved:
______________________________
AAAAAAAAAAAAA Date
______________________________
AAAAAAAAAAA GovernorS.B. ANo.A212
12House Bill 1735
H.B. ANo.A1735
AN ACT
relating to sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and
stalking at public and private postsecondary educational
institutions; providing an administrative penalty.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:SECTION
A1.AAChapter 51, Education Code, is amended by adding
Subchapter E-3 to read as follows:
SUBCHAPTER E-3. SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING
VIOLENCE, AND STALKING
Sec. A51.281. AADEFINITIONS. In this subchapter:
(1)AA"Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board.
(2)AA"Dating violence," "sexual assault," and
"stalking" have the meanings assigned by the Jeanne Clery
Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics
Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)(6)(A)).
(3)AA"Postsecondary educational institution" means an
institution of higher education or a private or independent
institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by
Section 61.003 .
(4)AA"Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based
verbal or physical conduct that:
(A)AAin the employment context, unreasonably
interferes with a person ’s work performance or creates an1
2
3
456789
10
111213141516
17
181920212223
24
1intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or
(B)AAin the education context, is sufficiently
severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a
student ’s ability to participate in or benefit from educational
programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. A51.282. AAPOLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT,
DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKING. (a) Each postsecondary educational
institution shall adopt a policy on sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, and stalking applicable to each student
enrolled at and each employee of the institution. The policy must:
(1)AAinclude:
(A)AAdefinitions of prohibited behavior;
(B)AAsanctions for violations;
(C)AAthe protocol for reporting and responding to
reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and
stalking;
(D)AAinterim measures to protect victims of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking during the
pendency of the institution ’s disciplinary process, including
protection from retaliation, and any other accommodations
available to those victims at the institution; and
(E)AAa statement regarding:
(i)AAthe importance of a victim of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking going to a
hospital for treatment and preservation of evidence, if applicable,
as soon as practicable after the incident;
(ii) AAthe right of a victim of sexual1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
2harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to report
the incident to the institution and to receive a prompt and
equitable resolution of the report; and
(iii) AAthe right of a victim of a crime to
choose whether to report the crime to law enforcement, to be
assisted by the institution in reporting the crime to law
enforcement, or to decline to report the crime to law enforcement;
and
(2)AAbe approved by the institution ’s governing board
before final adoption by the institution.
(b)AAEach postsecondary educational institution shall make
the institution ’s sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, and stalking policy available to students, faculty, and
staff members by:
(1)AAincluding the policy in the institution ’s student
handbook and personnel handbook; and
(2)AAcreating and maintaining a web page dedicated
solely to the policy that is easily accessible through a clearly
identifiable link on the institution ’s Internet website home page.
(c)AAEach postsecondary educational institution shall
require each entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student to
attend an orientation on the institution ’s sexual harassment,
sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy before or
during the first semester or term in which the student is enrolled
at the institution. The institution shall establish the format and
content of the orientation. The orientation:
(1)AAmay be provided online; and1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
3(2)AAmust include the statements described by
Subsection (a)(1)(E).
(d)AAEach postsecondary educational institution shall
develop and implement a comprehensive prevention and outreach
program on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and
stalking. The program must:
(1)AAaddress a range of strategies to prevent sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking,
including a victim empowerment program, a public awareness
campaign, primary prevention, bystander intervention, and risk
reduction; and
(2)AAinclude providing to students information
regarding the protocol for reporting incidents of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted
under Subsection (a), including the name, office location, and
contact information of the institution ’s Title IX coordinator, by:
(A)AAe-mailing the information to each student at
the beginning of each semester or other academic term; and
(B)AAincluding the information in the orientation
required under Subsection (c).
(e)AAAs part of the protocol for responding to reports of
sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking
adopted under Subsection (a), each postsecondary educational
institution shall:
(1)AAto the greatest extent practicable based on the
number of counselors employed by the institution, ensure that each
alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
4harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and any
other person who reports such an incident are offered counseling
provided by a counselor who does not provide counseling to any other
person involved in the incident; and
(2)AAnotwithstanding any other law, allow an alleged
victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment,
sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to drop a course in
which both parties are enrolled without any academic penalty.
(f)AAEach biennium, each postsecondary educational
institution shall review the institution ’s sexual harassment,
sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy and, with
approval of the institution ’s governing board, revise the policy as
necessary.
Sec. A51.285. AAVICTIM REQUEST NOT TO INVESTIGATE. (a) If an
alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary
educational institution requests the institution not to
investigate the alleged incident, the institution may investigate
the alleged incident in a manner that complies with the
confidentiality requirements under Section 51.291. In determining
whether to investigate the alleged incident, the institution shall
consider:
(1)AAthe seriousness of the alleged incident;
(2)AAwhether the institution has received other reports
of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking
committed by the alleged perpetrator or perpetrators;
(3)AAwhether the alleged incident poses a risk of harm1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
5to others; and
(4)AAany other factors the institution determines
relevant.
(b)AAIf a postsecondary educational institution decides not
to investigate an alleged incident of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, or stalking based on the alleged victim ’s
request not to investigate, the institution shall take any steps
the institution determines necessary to protect the health and
safety of the institution ’s community in relation to the alleged
incident.
(c)AAA postsecondary educational institution shall inform an
alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, or stalking who requests the institution not to
investigate the alleged incident of the institution ’s decision
whether to investigate the alleged incident.
Sec. A51.286. AADISCIPLINARY PROCESS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.
A postsecondary educational institution that initiates a
disciplinary process concerning an allegation that a student
enrolled at the institution violated the institution ’s code of
conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking shall:
(1)AAprovide to the student and the alleged victim a
prompt and equitable opportunity to present witnesses and other
evidence relevant to the alleged violation during the disciplinary
process;
(2)AAensure that both the student and the alleged
victim have reasonable and equitable access to all evidence1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
6relevant to the alleged violation in the institution ’s possession,
including any statements made by the alleged victim or by other
persons, information stored electronically, written or electronic
communications, social media posts, or physical evidence, redacted
as necessary to comply with any applicable federal or state law
regarding confidentiality; and
(3)AAtake reasonable steps to protect the student and
the alleged victim from retaliation and harassment during the
pendency of the disciplinary process.
Sec. A51.287. AASTUDENT WITHDRAWAL OR GRADUATION PENDING
DISCIPLINARY CHARGES. (a) If a student withdraws or graduates from
a postsecondary educational institution pending a disciplinary
charge alleging that the student violated the institution ’s code of
conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking, the institution:
(1)AAmay not end the disciplinary process or issue a
transcript to the student until the institution makes a final
determination of responsibility; and
(2)AAshall expedite the institution ’s disciplinary
process as necessary to accommodate both the student ’s and the
alleged victim ’s interest in a speedy resolution.
(b)AAOn request by another postsecondary educational
institution, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide
to the requesting institution information relating to a
determination by the institution that a student enrolled at the
institution violated the institution ’s code of conduct by
committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
7stalking.
Sec. A51.288. AATRAUMA-INFORMED INVESTIGATION TRAINING. Each
peace officer employed by a postsecondary educational institution
shall complete training on trauma-informed investigation into
allegations of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence,
and stalking.
Sec. A51.289. AAMEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING REQUIRED. To
facilitate effective communication and coordination regarding
allegations of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence,
and stalking at the institution, a postsecondary educational
institution shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with one
or more:
(1)AAlocal law enforcement agencies;
(2)AAsexual harassment, sexual assault, dating
violence, or stalking advocacy groups; and
(3)AAhospitals or other medical resource providers.
Sec. A51.290. AARESPONSIBLE AND CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE;
STUDENT ADVOCATE. (a) Each postsecondary educational institution
shall:
(1)AAdesignate:
(A)AAone or more employees to act as responsible
employees for purposes of Title IX of the Education Amendments of
1972 (20 U.S.C. Section 1681 et seq.); and
(B)AAone or more employees as persons to whom
students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially
concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and
stalking; and1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
8(2)AAinform each student enrolled at the institution of
the responsible and confidential employees designated under
Subdivision (1).
(b)AAA postsecondary educational institution may designate
one or more students enrolled at the institution as student
advocates to whom other students enrolled at the institution may
speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, and stalking. The institution shall notify each
student enrolled at the institution of the student advocates
designated under this subsection.
(c)AAA confidential employee designated under Subsection
(a)(1)(B) or a student advocate designated under Subsection (b) may
not disclose any communication made by a student to the employee or
advocate unless the student consents to the disclosure or the
employee or advocate is required to make the disclosure under state
or federal law.
Sec. A51.291. AACONFIDENTIALITY. (a) The protections
provided by this section apply to:
(1)AAan alleged victim of an incident of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported
to a postsecondary educational institution;
(2)AAa person who reports to a postsecondary
educational institution an incident of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, dating violence, or stalking, who sought guidance from the
institution concerning such an incident, or who participated in the
institution ’s investigation of such an incident; and
(3)AAa person who is alleged in a report made to a1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
9postsecondary educational institution to have committed or
assisted in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault,
dating violence, or stalking if, after completing an investigation,
the institution determines the report to be unsubstantiated or
without merit.
(b)AAUnless waived in writing by the person, the identity of
a person described by Subsection (a):
(1)AAis confidential and not subject to disclosure
under Chapter 552, Government Code; and
(2)AAmay be disclosed only to:
(A)AAthe postsecondary educational institution to
which the report described by Subsection (a) is made as necessary to
conduct an investigation of the report;
(B)AAa law enforcement officer as necessary to
conduct a criminal investigation of the report described by
Subsection (a); or
(C)AAa health care provider in an emergency
situation, as determined necessary by the institution.
(c)AAA disclosure under Subsection (b) is not a voluntary
disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007 , Government Code.
(d)AAInformation regarding an incident of sexual harassment,
sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking disclosed to a health
care provider or other medical provider employed by a postsecondary
educational institution is confidential and may be shared by the
provider only with the victim ’s consent. The provider must provide
aggregate data or other nonidentifying information regarding those
incidents to the institution ’s Title IX coordinator.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
10Sec. A51.292. AACOMPLIANCE. (a) If the coordinating board
determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in
substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating
board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution
in an amount not to exceed $2 million. In determining the amount of
the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of
the violation and the number of students enrolled at the
institution.
(b)AAIf the coordinating board assesses an administrative
penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under
Subsection (a), the coordinating board shall provide to the
institution written notice of the coordinating board ’s reasons for
assessing the penalty.
(c)AAA postsecondary educational institution assessed an
administrative penalty under Subsection (a) may appeal the penalty
in the manner provided by Chapter 2001 , Government Code.
(d)AAA postsecondary educational institution may not pay an
administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (a) using state or
federal money.
(e)AAAn administrative penalty collected under this section
shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund
established under Section 420.008 , Government Code.
(f)AAThe coordinating board shall annually submit to the
governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of
representatives, and the standing legislative committees with
primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at
postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
11compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the
postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in
substantial compliance as provided by this section and any
penalties assessed under this section during the preceding year.
Sec. A51.293. AAEQUAL ACCESS. In implementing the
requirements under this subchapter, a postsecondary educational
institution shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure equal
access for students enrolled at or employees of the institution who
are persons with disabilities. The institution shall make
reasonable efforts to consult with a disability services office of
the institution, advocacy groups for people with disabilities, and
other relevant stakeholders to assist the institution with
complying with the institution ’s duties under this section.
Sec. A51.294. AAADVISORY COMMITTEE. (a) The commissioner of
higher education shall establish an advisory committee to:
(1)AAmake recommendations to the coordinating board
regarding rules for adoption under Section 51.295; and
(2)AAdevelop recommended training for responsible and
confidential employees designated under Section 51.290 and for
Title IX coordinators at postsecondary educational institutions.
(b)AAThe advisory committee consists of nine members
appointed by the commissioner of higher education. Each member
must be a chief executive officer of a postsecondary educational
institution or a representative designated by that officer.
(c)AAThe advisory committee shall annually review and, if
necessary, update the training recommended under Subsection
(a)(2).1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
12Sec. A51.295. AARULES. (a) The coordinating board shall adopt
rules as necessary to implement and enforce this subchapter,
including rules that:
(1)AAdefine relevant terms; and
(2)AAensure implementation of this subchapter in a
manner that complies with federal law regarding confidentiality of
student educational information, including the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g).
(b)AAIn adopting rules under this section, the coordinating
board shall consult with relevant stakeholders.
SECTION A2.AASections 51.9365(b), (c), and (d), Education
Code, are transferred to Subchapter E-3, Chapter 51, Education
Code, as added by this Act, redesignated as Section 51.283,
Education Code, and amended to read as follows:
Sec. A51.283. AAELECTRONIC REPORTING OPTION. (a) [(b) ] Each
postsecondary educational institution shall provide an option for astudent enrolled at or an employee of the institution toelectronically report to the institution an allegation of sexualharassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committedagainst or witnessed by the student or employee, regardless of the
location at which the alleged offense occurred.
(b)A[(c) ]AAThe electronic reporting option provided under
Subsection (a) [(b) ] must:
(1)AAenable a student or employee to report the alleged
offense anonymously; and
(2)AAbe easily accessible through a clearly
identifiable link on the postsecondary educational institution ’s1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
13Internet website home page.
(c)A[(d) ]AAA protocol for reporting sexual assault adopted
under Section 51.282 [51.9363 ] must comply with this section.
SECTION A3.AASections 51.9366(b), (c), (d), (e), and (f),
Education Code, are transferred to Subchapter E-3, Chapter 51,
Education Code, as added by this Act, redesignated as Section
51.284, Education Code, and amended to read as follows:
Sec. A51.284. AAAMNESTY FOR STUDENTS REPORTING CERTAIN
INCIDENTS. (a) [(b) ] A postsecondary educational institution may
not take any disciplinary action against a student enrolled at theinstitution who in good faith reports to the institution being thevictim of, or a witness to, an incident of sexual harassment, sexualassault, dating violence, or stalking for a violation by the
student of the institution
’s code of conduct occurring at or near
the time of the incident, regardless of the location at which theincident occurred or the outcome of the institution
’s disciplinary
process regarding the incident, if any.
(b)A[(c) ]AAA postsecondary educational institution may
investigate to determine whether a report of an incident of sexualharassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking was made
in good faith.
(c)A[(d) ]AAA determination that a student is entitled to
amnesty under Subsection (a) [(b) ] is final and may not be revoked.
(d)A[(e) ]AASubsection (a) [(b) ] does not apply to a student
who reports the student ’s own commission or assistance in the
commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence,
or stalking.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617181920
21
2223242526
27H.B.
ANo.A1735
14(e)A[(f) ]AAThis section may not be construed to limit a
postsecondary educational institution ’s ability to provide amnesty
from application of the institution ’s policies in circumstances not
described by Subsection (a) [(b) ].
SECTION A4.AAThe following provisions of the Education Code
are repealed:
(1)AASection 51.9363;
(2)AAthe heading to Sections 51.9365 and51.9366;
(3)AASections 51.9365(a) and (e); and
(4)AASections 51.9366(a) and (g).
SECTION A5.AAThe changes in law made by this Act apply
beginning August 1, 2020.
SECTION A6.AANot later than September 1, 2021, the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board shall submit its initial report
required under Section 51.292(f), Education Code, as added by thisAct.
SECTION
A7.AAThis Act takes effect September 1, 2019.1
23456
7
89
10111213
14
151617H.B.
ANo.A1735
15______________________________ ______________________________
AAPresident of the Senate Speaker of the House AAAAAA
I certify that H.B. No. 1735 was passed by the House on April
17, 2019, by the following vote: AAYeas 113, Nays 29, 2 present, not
voting; that the House refused to concur in Senate amendments to
H.B. No. 1735 on May 23, 2019, and requested the appointment of a
conference committee to consider the differences between the twohouses; and that the House adopted the conference committee reporton H.B. No. 1735 on May 26, 2019, by the following vote:
AAYeas 109,
Nays 30, 1 present, not voting.
______________________________
Chief Clerk of the House AAAH.B. ANo.A1735
16I certify that H.B. No. 1735 was passed by the Senate, with
amendments, on May 16, 2019, by the following vote: AAYeas 31, Nays
0; at the request of the House, the Senate appointed a conferencecommittee to consider the differences between the two houses; andthat the Senate adopted the conference committee report on H.B. No.1735 on May 26, 2019, by the following vote:
AAYeas 31, Nays 0.
______________________________
Secretary of the Senate AAA
APPROVED: __________________
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA Date AAAAAAA
AAAAAAAAA __________________
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA Governor AAAAAAAH.B. ANo.A1735
17E-2
Sec. 51.002.  FUNDS SUBJECT TO CONTROL.  (a)  The governing board of each institution listed in Section 51.001 of this code may retain control of the following sums of money collected at the institution, subject to Section 51.008 of this code:(1)  student fees of all kinds;(2)  charges for use of rooms and dormitories;(3)  receipts from meals, cafes, and cafeterias;(4)  fees on deposit refundable to students under certain conditions;(5)  receipts from school athletic activities;(6)  income from student publications and other student activities;(7)  receipts from the sale of publication products and miscellaneous supplies and equipment;(8)  students' voluntary deposits of money for safekeeping;(9)  all other fees and local or institutional funds arising out of and by virtue of the educational activities, research, or demonstrations carried on by the institution;  and(10)  donations and gifts to the institution.(b)  The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to any income derived from the permanent university fund.
Sec. 51.003.  DEPOSITORIES.  (a)  The governing board of each institution may select one or more depositories as places of deposit for the funds enumerated in Section 51.002 of this code.  Depositories shall be selected on the basis of competitive bids.  If bids are taken orally, the bids shall be tabulated by the person taking the bids and made a part of the permanent records of the institution.(b)  The funds shall either be deposited in the depository bank or banks or invested as authorized by Chapter 2256, Government Code (Public Funds Investment Act).  Funds that are to be deposited in the depository bank or banks must be deposited within seven days from the date of receipt by the institution.(c)  The governing board shall require adequate surety bonds or securities to be posted to secure the deposits and may require additional security at any time it deems the deposits inadequately secured.  The depository banks selected may pledge their securities to protect the funds.(d)  A depository shall pay interest on the deposits at a rate agreed on by the depository and the governing board.(e)  Any surety bond furnished under the provisions of this section shall be payable to the governor and his successors in office.  Venue for a suit to recover an amount claimed by the state to be due on a surety bond is in Travis County.(f)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the governing board of each institution may maintain unsecured deposits in a foreign bank as necessary to support the institution's academic and research operations in the foreign country in which the bank is located, provided that no appropriated or tuition funds other than those collected from students enrolled in the affected programs are deposited.  The foreign bank must:(1)  be licensed and supervised by a central bank;(2)  be audited annually by an accounting firm that follows international financial reporting standards; and(3)  maintain a capital to total assets ratio that is not less than the greater of four percent or the minimum tier 1 capital to total assets ratio required for depository institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Sec. 51.0031.  DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS.  (a)  A governing board may deposit funds under its control as provided in Section 51.003 of this code, may invest funds under its control in accordance with Chapter 2256, Government Code and, with regard to donations, gifts, and trusts, may establish endowment funds that operate as trusts and are managed under prudent person standards.(b)  Funds described in this section may also be invested in cash management and fixed income funds held by organizations exempt from federal taxation under Section 501(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Section 501(f)), as that section may be amended.(c)  If a governing board has under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, such governing board may invest all funds described in this section under prudent person standards.(c-1)  If a governing board does not have under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, the governing board may contract to pool its funds described in this section with another institution that meets the $25 million in book value of endowment funds threshold established under Subsection (c), and have its funds invested by that governing board under prudent person standards.(d)  As used in this section, "prudent person standard" is the standard of care described in Article VII, Section 11b, of the Texas Constitution, and means that standard of judgment and care that prudent investors, exercising reasonable care, skill, and caution, would acquire or retain in light of the purposes, terms, distribution requirements, and other circumstances of the fund then prevailing, taking into consideration the investment of all the assets of the fund rather than a single investment.
Sec. 51.0032.  INVESTMENT REPORTS AND POLICIES.  (a)  A governing board shall adopt by rule or resolution a written investment policy for the investment of its institutional funds.(b)  Not less than quarterly, an institution of higher education shall prepare and submit to the governing board of the institution a written report of the institution's institutional funds investment transactions for the preceding reporting period.(c)  In addition to other information that may be required by the governing board, the report must contain:(1)  a summary statement of each pooled fund group that states the beginning market value for the reporting period, additions and changes to the market value during the period, and the ending market value for the period;  and(2)  the book value and market value of each separately invested asset at the beginning and end of the reporting period by type of asset and fund type invested.(d)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" means a governing board described in Section 51.0031(c).(2)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education under the governance of a governing board to which this section applies.(3)  "Pooled fund group" means an internally created fund of an institution of higher education in which one or more institutional accounts are invested.(4)  "Separately invested asset" means an account of an institution of higher education that is not invested in a pooled fund group.
Sec. 51.004.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS;  TRUST FUNDS;  INTEREST.  (a)  Separate accounts shall be kept on the books of the institution showing the sources of all sums collected and the purposes for which disbursements are made.(b)  All trust funds, including gifts, grants, and bequests received, establishing or adding to endowment funds, loan and scholarship funds, and funds for other current restricted purposes, shall be credited to separate accounts and shall not be commingled with other local or institutional funds.(c)  If the governing board so elects, deposits of all funds not specifically required to be deposited to special accounts may be deposited in a single bank account if the records of the institution clearly reflect the balances attributable to general funds and various categories of trust funds.(d)  Interest received from depository banks for funds on deposit may be credited to an appropriate account in either general funds or trust funds in relation to the sources of temporary investments in time deposits, if the disposition of the earnings was not specified by the grantor.  Interest received from the trust funds time deposits shall be available for loans, scholarships, fellowships, institutional research, faculty aid, and other lawful purposes.
Sec. 51.0051.  ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGETS.  The governing board of each institution shall approve on or before September 1 of each year an itemized budget covering the operation of the institution for the fiscal year beginning on September 1 of each year.  The budget shall be prepared within the limits of legislatively appropriated general revenue and estimated educational and general funds.  The budget shall also include estimated institutional funds.  Copies of each such budget shall be furnished to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for distribution to the Governor's Budget and Planning Office, Legislative Budget Board, and Legislative Reference Library.  Additional copies shall be delivered to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board as required.  The governing board of the institution shall retain five copies of the budget for distribution to legislators or other state officials on request.
Sec. 51.0052.  APPLICATION REQUIREMENT FOR COLONIAS PROJECTS.  (a)  In this section, "colonia" means a geographic area that:(1)  is an economically distressed area as defined by Section 17.921, Water Code;(2)  is located in a county any part of which is within 62 miles of an international border; and(3)  consists of 11 or more dwellings that are located in close proximity to each other in an area that may be described as a community or neighborhood.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(d)  Regarding any projects funded by an institution of higher education that provide assistance to colonias, the institution of higher education shall require an applicant for the funds to submit to the institution a colonia classification number, if one exists, for each colonia that may be served by the project proposed in the application.  If a colonia does not have a classification number, the institution of higher education may contact the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative to obtain the classification number.  On request of the institution, the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative shall assign a classification number to the colonia.
Sec. 51.007.  PENALTY.  Any state officer, agent, employee, or member of a governing board of any of the above named institutions, or any other person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, and in addition may be sentenced to not less than 15 days nor more than three months in the county jail.  Failure to print and furnish to the officers above named, the reports above specified, shall subject all of the members of the governing board of the institutions above mentioned to the penalties provided for in this section.  Every day in excess of the number of days hereinabove provided for that any sum of money belonging to any of the funds enumerated in this subchapter, whether depositable in special depositories or whether those that should be deposited in the state treasury, shall be withheld from deposit at its proper place of deposit, shall constitute a separate offense and each day of such withholding shall subject the officer, agent, employee, or person so withholding said sum to the penalties herein provided for.
Sec. 51.008.  CERTAIN RECEIPTS TO BE DEPOSITED IN STATE TREASURY.  (a)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education is directed to designate special depository banks, subject to the approval of the comptroller, for the purpose of receiving and keeping certain receipts of the institution separate and apart from funds now deposited in the state treasury.  The receipts here referred to are described in Subsection (b) of this section.  The comptroller is directed to deposit the receipts, or funds representing such receipts, enumerated herein, in the special depository bank or banks nearest the institution credited with the receipts, so far as is practicable, and is authorized to withdraw such funds on drafts or checks prescribed by the comptroller. The comptroller is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to require collateral security for the protection of such funds pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 404, Government Code. For the purpose of facilitating the clearance and collection of the receipts herein enumerated, the comptroller is hereby authorized to deposit such receipts in any state depository bank and transfer funds representing such receipts enumerated herein to the respective special depository banks.  Banks so designated as special depository banks are hereby authorized to pledge their securities to protect such funds.(b)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education shall deposit in the state treasury all cash receipts accruing to any college or university under its control that may be derived from all sources except auxiliary enterprises, noninstructional services, agency, designated, and restricted funds, endowment and other gift funds, student loan funds, funds retained under Chapter 145 of this code, and Constitutional College Building Amendment funds.  The comptroller is directed to credit such receipts deposited by each such institution to a separate fund account for the institution depositing the receipts, but he shall not be required to keep separate accounts of types of funds deposited by each institution.  For the purpose of facilitating the transferring of such institutional receipts to the state treasury, each institution shall open in a local depository bank a clearing account to which it shall deposit daily all such receipts, and shall, not less often than every seven days, make remittances therefrom to the comptroller of all except $500 of the total balance in said clearing account, such remittances to be in the form of checks drawn on the clearing account by the duly authorized officers of the institution, and no disbursements other than remittances to the state treasury shall be made from such clearing account.  All money so deposited in the state treasury shall be paid out on warrants drawn by the comptroller as provided by law.(c)  The legislature is authorized to create revolving funds for the handling of funds of institutions of higher education, as enumerated herein, by making provision in each biennial appropriation bill enacted by the legislature.(d)  Nothing in this section affects the provisions of Title 47, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, usually referred to as the State Depository Law.  However, the limitation of deposits contained in Article 2532, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, as amended, shall not apply insofar as the specific funds enumerated in this section are concerned.(e)  This section prevails over Sections 51.001-51.007 of this code to the extent of any conflict.(f)  Interest earned on the receipts deposited under this section to an institution's separate fund account in the state treasury shall be credited to that separate fund account.(g)  Revenues collected at institutions of higher education and deposited in the state treasury pursuant to this section and Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, and the interest earned thereon, are dedicated to the institution which collected and deposited the funds irrespective of the year the funds were collected, deposited, or earned.  These funds may be only used for the support, maintenance, and operation of the institution as provided for by law.  Section 403.094(h), Government Code, does not apply to funds described in this section.(h)  Tuition revenues and revenue collected under Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, that are deposited in the treasury pursuant to this section, and the interest earned on those revenues, shall be treated as designated funds in the general revenue fund.  Notwithstanding a pledge of those revenues made or to be made in the proceedings approved by the governing board of an institution of higher education authorizing the issuance or incurrence of bonds, the deposit of those revenues in the treasury to the credit of an account in the general revenue fund does not:(1)  affect in any manner the pledge of the revenues or the governing board's ability to pledge the revenues to secure and pay bonds issued or incurred by the governing board in accordance with law;(2)  cause the bonds to constitute a debt of the state or be payable from the full faith and credit of the state;(3)  change the character of the revenues as separate revenue of the institution collecting the revenue;  or(4)  cause the revenue to be considered general revenue for purposes of Sections 17 and 18, Article VII, Texas Constitution.
Sec. 51.009.  DEFINING AND ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INCOME.  (a)  "Local funds" are the items to be accounted for as "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section, but do not include general revenue funds.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(b)  "Institutional funds" means all funds collected at the institution that are not "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(c)  Each of the following shall be accounted for as educational and general funds:(1)  net tuition, special course fees charged under Sections 54.051(e) and (l), lab fees, student teaching fees, organized activity fees, and proceeds from the sale of educational and general equipment; and(2)  hospital and clinic fees received by a state-owned clinical care facility that is operated using general revenue fund appropriations for patient care.
Sec. 51.011.  DISPOSITION OF SMALL CREDIT BALANCES.  (a)  This section applies to a credit balance of less than $25 held by an institution of higher education that is presumed abandoned under Chapter 72, Property Code.(b)  An institution of higher education may maintain an unclaimed money fund and transfer to that fund a credit balance to which this section applies.  A deposit to the unclaimed money fund does not affect the ownership of the amount deposited.  The institution shall:(1)  adopt procedures for owners to make and receive payments of claims against the fund; and(2)  maintain a database that permits members of the public to search for ownership of unclaimed funds.(c)  The institution of higher education shall use the fund to pay the claims of persons establishing ownership of amounts transferred to the fund and shall hold and account for the unclaimed money fund as educational and general funds of the institution.  If the fund balance is insufficient to pay a valid claim, the institution shall pay the claim from the institution's other educational and general funds.(d)  Each fiscal year, after deducting funds sufficient to pay anticipated expenses of and claims against the unclaimed money fund, the institution shall use the balance of the fund as other educational and general funds of the institution.(e)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the comptroller by rule may establish minimum requirements for notice to owners of unclaimed money deposited in the unclaimed money fund and for charges for that notice.  The rules may not provide stricter requirements than the comptroller applies for amounts of less than $25 in the custody of the comptroller under Chapter 74, Property Code.(f)  If an institution of higher education maintains an unclaimed money fund under this section, Chapter 74, Property Code, does not apply to a credit balance to which this section applies.
SUBCHAPTER C. FACULTY DEVELOPMENT LEAVES OF ABSENCESec. 51.101.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 61.003 of this code, except that Texas State Technical College System is included and the Rodent and Predatory Animal Control Service is excluded for the purposes of this subchapter.(2)  "Governing board" means the body charged with policy direction of an institution of higher education.(3)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed by an institution of higher education on a full-time basis as a member of the faculty or staff and whose duties include teaching, research, administration, including professional librarians, or the performance of professional services.  However, the term does not include a person employed in a position which is in the institution's classified personnel system or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system.
Sec. 51.102.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.  The legislature finds that higher education is vitally important to the welfare, if not the survival, of Texas and the United States at this stage in history and that the quality of higher education is dependent upon the quality of college and university faculties.  The legislature finds, therefore, that money spent on recognized means for producing an excellent system of public higher education is money spent to serve a public purpose of great importance.  The legislature finds further that a sound program of faculty development leaves of absence designed to enable the faculty member to engage in study, research, writing, and similar projects for the purpose of adding to the knowledge available to himself, his students, his institution, and society generally is a well-recognized means for improving a state's program of public higher education.  The legislature's purpose in establishing the faculty development leave program provided for by this subchapter is to improve further the higher education available to the youth at the state-supported colleges and universities and to establish this program of faculty development leaves as part of the plan of compensation for the faculty of these colleges and universities.
Sec. 51.103.  GRANTING LEAVES OF ABSENCE;  PROCEDURES.  (a)  On the application of a faculty member, the governing board of an institution of higher education may grant a faculty development leave of absence for study, research, writing, field observations, or other suitable purpose, to a faculty member if it finds that he is eligible by reason of service, that the purpose for which he seeks a faculty development leave is one for which a faculty development leave may be granted, and that granting leave to him will not place on faculty development leave a greater number of faculty members than that authorized.(b)  The governing board by regulation shall establish a procedure whereby the applications for faculty development leaves of absence are received by a committee elected by the general faculty for evaluation and whereby this faculty committee then makes recommendations to the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education, who shall then make recommendations to the governing board as to which applications should be granted.
Sec. 51.105.  DURATION AND COMPENSATION.  (a)  The governing board may grant to a faculty member a faculty development leave either for one academic year at one-half of his regular salary or for one-half academic year at his full regular salary.  Payment of salary to the faculty member on faculty development leave may be made from the funds appropriated by the legislature specifically for that purpose, or from such other funds as might be available to the institution.(b)  A faculty member on faculty development leave may accept a grant for study, research, or travel from any institution of higher education, from a charitable, religious, or educational corporation or foundation, from any business enterprise, or from any federal, state, or local governmental agency.  An accounting of all grants shall be made to the governing board of the institution by the faculty member.  A faculty member on faculty development leave may not accept employment from any other person, corporation, or government, unless the governing board determines that it would be in the public interest to do so and expressly approves the employment.
Sec. 51.107.  RIGHTS RETAINED.  (a)  A faculty member on faculty development leave shall continue to be a member of the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or of the Optional Retirement Program of the institution of higher education, or of both, just as any other member of the faculty on full-time duty.(b)  The institution of higher education shall cause to be deducted from the compensation paid to a member of the faculty on faculty development leave the deposit and membership dues required to be paid by him to the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or to the Optional Retirement Program, or both, the contribution for Old Age and Survivors Insurance, and any other amounts required or authorized to be deducted from the compensation paid any faculty member.(c)  A member of the faculty on faculty development leave is a faculty member for purposes of participating in the programs and of receiving the benefits made available by or through the institution of higher education or the state to faculty members.
Sec. 51.153.  WESTERN INFORMATION NETWORK ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The Western Information Network Association is an agency of the state composed of the following state-supported member institutions of higher education:  Amarillo College, Angelo State University, Clarendon Junior College, Frank Phillips College, Howard County Junior College, Midwestern University, Odessa College, South Plains College, Sul Ross State University, Texas Tech University, The University of Texas at El Paso, and West Texas State University.(b)  The board by a majority vote may admit other state-supported institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(c)  The board by unanimous vote may admit private institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(d)  The board by unanimous vote may admit other organizations to associate membership in the association.(e)  The Western Information Network Association is subject to the Texas Sunset Act (Chapter 325, Government Code).  Unless continued in existence as provided by that Act, the association is abolished September 1, 1989.
Sec. 51.161.  POWERS AND DUTIES OF ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The association may acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, a multichannel, two-way communications system, including closed-circuit television, linking classrooms, libraries, computer facilities, information retrieval systems, and communications facilities located at the member institutions.(b)  The association may lease, acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, any facilities in addition to those described in Subsection (a) of this section, which the board considers necessary or desirable in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.(c)  The association is authorized to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, operate, maintain, and equip a dormitory or dormitories located on or near the campus of any member institution of the association that is a state-supported institution of higher education, and to issue its revenue bonds therefor as provided in this subchapter.(d)  The association may interchange educational information with private educational institutions, school districts, the United States government, and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects, and use the facilities of the association only in the exchange, retrieval, and transfer of information and the interchange of approval course offering and instruction between member-institutions and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects.  Any dormitories leased, acquired, operated, and maintained by the association shall not be subject to the use limitation of this subsection that applies to all other facilities of the association.
Sec. 51.170.  REVENUE BONDS.  (a)  The board may issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of providing funds to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, purchase, construct, improve, enlarge, or equip any property, buildings, structures, or other facilities, including but not limited to dormitories, for and on behalf of the association.(b)  The bonds shall be payable from and secured by liens on and pledges of all or any part of the revenues from any lease rentals, rentals, charges, fees, or other resources of the board or association.(c)  The bonds may be issued to mature serially or otherwise within not more than 40 years from their date.  The board may provide for the subsequent issuance of additional parity bonds, or subordinate lien bonds, under the terms and conditions set forth in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(d)  The bonds, and any interest coupons appertaining to them, are negotiable instruments.  The bonds may be issued registrable as to principal alone or as to both principal and interest.  They shall be executed, and may be made redeemable prior to maturity, may be issued in the form, denominations, and manner, and under the terms, conditions, and details, may be sold in the manner, at the price, and under the terms, and shall bear interest at the rate or rates, as is determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(e)  Proceeds from the sale of the bonds may be used for paying interest on the bonds during the period of the acquisition or construction of any facilities to be provided through the issuance of the bonds and for providing a reserve for the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds.  The proceeds may be placed on time deposit or invested until needed to the extent and in the manner provided in the bond resolution.(f)  The board shall fix and collect lease rentals, rentals, rates, charges, and fees, or any combination of them, from students or others for the occupancy, use, or availability of all or any of its property, buildings, structures, or other facilities in amounts which will be sufficient, together with any other pledged resources, to provide for all payments of principal, interest, and any other amounts required in connection with any bonds issued under this section, and, to the extent required by the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, to provide for the payment of expenses in connection with the issuance of the bonds and for the payment of operation, maintenance, and other expenses in connection with the property, buildings, structures, or facilities.(g)  Fees for the use or availability of all or any property, buildings, structures, or facilities may be pledged to the payment of the bonds, and shall be fixed and collected in the manner determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.  The board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any resources of the board or association to the extent that the resources are permitted to be pledged to the payment of the revenue bonds.  Each board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any grant, donation, or income received or to be received from the United States government or any other public or private source, whether pursuant to an agreement or otherwise.
Sec. 51.172.  APPROVAL OF BONDS;  REGISTRATION.  All bonds issued under this subchapter shall be submitted to the attorney general for examination.  If he finds that the bonds have been authorized in accordance with law, he shall approve them, and thereupon they shall be registered by the comptroller of public accounts.  After the approval and registration the bonds are incontestable for any reason and are valid and binding obligations in accordance with their terms for all purposes.  If the bonds recite that they are secured partially or otherwise by a pledge of the proceeds of a contract or lease made between the board and another party or parties, public agencies, or otherwise, a copy of the contract or lease and of the proceedings authorizing it may or may not be submitted to the attorney general along with the bond records.  If submitted, then the approval by the attorney general of the bonds shall constitute an approval of the contract or lease, and thereafter the contract or lease shall be incontestable.
Sec. 51.173.  BONDS AS LEGAL INVESTMENTS.  All bonds issued under this subchapter are legal and authorized investments for all banks, trust companies, building and loan associations, savings and loan associations, insurance companies of all kinds and types, fiduciaries, trustees, and guardians, and for all interest and sinking funds and other public funds of the State of Texas, and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic.  The bonds are eligible and lawful security for all deposits of public funds of the State of Texas and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic, to the extent of the market value of the bonds, when accompanied by any unmatured interest coupons appurtenant to them.
Sec. 51.202.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.  (a)  The governing board of each state institution of higher education, including public junior colleges, may promulgate rules and regulations for the safety and welfare of students, employees, and property, and other rules and regulations it may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and the governance of the institution, providing for the operation and parking of vehicles on the grounds, streets, drives, alleys, and any other institutional property under its control, including but not limited to the following:(1)  limiting the rate of speed;(2)  assigning parking spaces and designating parking areas and their use and assessing a charge for parking;(3)  prohibiting parking as it deems necessary;(4)  removing vehicles parked in violation of institutional rules and regulations or law at the expense of the violator;  and(5)  instituting a system of registration for vehicle identification, including a reasonable charge.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 787 , Sec. 5, eff. September 1, 2015.
Sec. 51.203.  CAMPUS PEACE OFFICERS.  (a)  The governing boards of each state institution of higher education and public technical institute may employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.  The primary jurisdiction of a peace officer commissioned under this section includes all counties in which property is owned, leased, rented, or otherwise under the control of the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(b)  Within a peace officer's primary jurisdiction, a peace officer commissioned under this section:(1)  is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers;(2)  may, in accordance with Chapter 14, Code of Criminal Procedure, arrest without a warrant any person who violates a law of the state;  and(3)  may enforce all traffic laws on streets and highways.(c)  Outside a peace officer's primary jurisdiction a peace officer commissioned under this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers and may arrest any person who violates any law of the state if the peace officer:(1)  is summoned by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance;(2)  is assisting another law enforcement agency;  or(3)  is otherwise performing his duties as a peace officer for the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(d)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers.(e)  Any person commissioned under this Act must be a certified police officer under the requirements of the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.
Sec. 51.207.  VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION INSIGNIA;  VEHICLE PERMITS.  (a)  Each public institution of higher education may provide for the issuance and use of suitable vehicle identification insignia.  The institution may bar or suspend the permit of any vehicle from driving or parking on any institutional property for the violation of any rule or regulation promulgated by the board as well as for any violation of this subchapter.  Reinstatement of the privileges may be permitted and a reasonable fee assessed.(b)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is located in whole or part in an area in which a motor vehicle registered in the area is required to undergo a vehicle emissions inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.  The institution may not issue a permit to a student enrolled at the institution to park or drive a motor vehicle that is not registered in this state on institutional property unless the institution has provided written notice to the student concerning requirements for vehicle emissions inspections pursuant to Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.(c)  The Public Safety Commission shall adopt rules providing for the inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code, of motor vehicles not registered in this state for purposes of Subsection (b).(d)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is not covered by Subsection (b).  The institution may not issue a permit to a student of the institution for driving or parking a motor vehicle on institutional property unless the institution provides written notice to the student that failure to register the vehicle in this state may violate state law if the owner of the vehicle resides in this state.(e)  Each institution of higher education that maintains a campus police force shall adopt procedures for enforcing State of Texas vehicle inspection laws for vehicles parking or driving on the campus of the institution.
Sec. 51.208.  PENALTY; COURTS HAVING JURISDICTION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person who violates any provision of this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated under this subchapter commits an offense. An offense under this subsection is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $200.(c)  The judge of a municipal court or any justice of the peace of any city or county where property under the control and jurisdiction of an institution of higher education or of a private or independent institution of higher education is located is each separately vested with all jurisdiction necessary to hear and determine criminal cases involving violations of this subchapter or rules or regulations promulgated under this subchapter for which the punishment does not exceed a fine of $200.
Sec. 51.212.  PEACE OFFICERS AT PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education, including private junior colleges, are authorized to employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of enforcing:(1)  state law on the campuses of private institutions of higher education; and(2)  state and local law, including applicable municipal ordinances, at other locations, as permitted by Subsection (b) or Section 51.2125.(b)  Any officer commissioned under the provisions of this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers if the officer:(1)  is on the property under the control and jurisdiction of the respective private institution of higher education or is otherwise performing duties assigned to the officer by the institution, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution, but provided these duties are being performed within a county in which the institution has land; or(2)  to the extent authorized by Section 51.2125, is:(A)  requested by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance in enforcing state or local law, including a municipal ordinance, and is acting in response to that request; or(B)  otherwise assisting another law enforcement agency in enforcing a law described by Paragraph (A).(c)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers, and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties as may be required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(d)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education are authorized to hire and pay on a regular basis peace officers commissioned by an incorporated city.  The officers shall be under the supervision of the hiring institution, but shall be subject to dismissal and disciplinary action by the city.  An incorporated city is authorized to contract with a private institution of higher education for the use and employment of its commissioned officers in any manner agreed to, provided that there is no expense incurred by the city.(e)  In this section, "private institution of higher education" means a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(f)  A campus police department of a private institution of higher education is a law enforcement agency and a governmental body for purposes of Chapter 552, Government Code, only with respect to information relating solely to law enforcement activities.
Sec. 51.2125.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS:  AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  This section applies only to a private institution of higher education that has under its control and jurisdiction property that is contiguous to, or located in any part within the boundaries of, a home-rule municipality that has a population of 1.18 million or more and is located predominantly in a county that has a total area of less than 1,000 square miles.  For purposes of this section, a private institution of higher education is a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(b)  In addition to exercising the authority provided under Section 51.212(d), the governing board of a private institution of higher education to which this section applies and the governing body of each municipality, regardless of the municipality's population, that is contiguous to, or the boundaries of which contain any part of, property under the control and jurisdiction of the private institution of higher education may enter into a written mutual assistance agreement in which peace officers commissioned by the institution or the applicable municipality serve the public interest by assisting, without any form of additional compensation or other financial benefit, the peace officers of the other party to the agreement in enforcing state or local law, including applicable municipal ordinances.  The agreement must be reviewed at least annually by the institution and the municipality and may be modified at that time by a written agreement signed by each party.  The agreement may be terminated at any time by a party to the agreement on the provision of reasonable notice to the other party to the agreement.(c)  A mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may designate the geographic area in which the campus peace officers are authorized to provide assistance to the peace officers of the municipality, except that if the agreement is entered into with a municipality described by Subsection (a) that elects all or part of the municipality's governing body from election districts, the designated geographic area consists of each of the election districts of the municipality's governing body that contains any part of the campus of the institution and each of the election districts of the governing body that is contiguous to another municipality that contains any part of the campus of the institution.(d)  This section does not affect a municipality's duty to provide law enforcement services to any location within the boundaries of the municipality.(e)  A peace officer providing assistance under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may make arrests and exercise all other authority given to peace officers under other state law.  The municipal law enforcement agency has exclusive authority to supervise any campus peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the peace officers of the municipality.  A municipal peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the campus peace officers remains under the supervision of the municipal law enforcement agency.(f)  In the same manner and to the same extent as a municipality is liable for an act or omission of a peace officer employed by the municipality, a private institution of higher education is liable for an act or omission of a campus peace officer operating under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section at a location other than property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution.(g)  This section does not limit the authority of a campus peace officer to make a warrantless arrest outside the officer's jurisdiction as described by Article 14.03(d), Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.2126.  APPEAL BY CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR PROMOTIONAL BYPASS RELATED TO PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE UNDER MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  A campus peace officer acting under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by Section 51.2125 who is demoted, suspended, or terminated by the applicable private institution of higher education or who experiences a promotional bypass by the institution may elect to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section.(b)  To elect to appeal to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the campus peace officer must submit to the head of the institution's law enforcement agency not later than the 30th day after the date of the action being appealed a written request stating the officer's decision to appeal to such a hearing examiner.(c)  The hearing examiner's decision is final and binding on all parties.  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the officer or institution may appeal the examiner's decision to a district court only as provided by Subsection (j).(d)  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal to a hearing examiner, the officer and the head of the institution's law enforcement agency or their designees shall attempt to agree on the selection of an impartial hearing examiner.  If the parties do not agree on the selection of a hearing examiner before the 10th day after the date the appeal is filed, the parties immediately shall request a list of seven qualified neutral arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, or their successors in function.  The officer and the agency head or their designees may agree on one of the seven neutral arbitrators on the list.  If the parties do not agree before the fifth business day after the date the parties receive the list, the parties or their designees shall alternate striking a name from the list, and the single name remaining after all other names have been struck is selected as the hearing examiner.  The parties or their designees shall agree on a date for the hearing.(e)  The appeal hearing must begin as soon as an appearance by the hearing examiner can be scheduled.  If the hearing examiner cannot begin the hearing before the 45th day after the date of selection, the campus peace officer may, within 48 hours after learning of that fact, call for the selection of a new hearing examiner using the procedure prescribed by Subsection (d).(f)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the hearing examiner has the same duties and powers that a civil service commission has in conducting a hearing or hearing an appeal under Chapter 143, Local Government Code, including the right to issue subpoenas.  The hearing examiner may:(1)  order that the campus peace officer be reinstated to the same position or status in which the officer was employed immediately before the demotion, suspension, or termination or, in the case of a promotional bypass, to the position or status with respect to which the officer experienced the bypass; and(2)  award the officer lost wages and any other compensation lost as a result of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, as applicable.(g)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the parties may agree to an expedited hearing procedure.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, in an expedited procedure the hearing examiner shall issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 10th day after the date the hearing is completed.(h)  In an appeal that does not involve an expedited hearing procedure, the hearing examiner shall make a reasonable effort to issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 30th day after the later of the date the hearing is completed or the briefs are filed.  The hearing examiner's inability to meet the time requirements imposed by this section does not affect the hearing examiner's jurisdiction, the validity of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, or the hearing examiner's final decision.(i)  The hearing examiner's fees and expenses shall be paid in equal amounts by the parties.  The costs of a witness shall be paid by the party who calls the witness.(j)  A district court may hear an appeal of a hearing examiner's decision only on the grounds that the hearing examiner was without jurisdiction or exceeded the examiner's jurisdiction or that the decision was procured by fraud, collusion, or other unlawful means.  An appeal must be brought in the district court having jurisdiction in the municipality in which the institution is located.
Sec. 51.214.  SECURITY OFFICERS FOR MEDICAL CORPORATIONS IN CERTAIN MUNICIPALITIES.  (a)  In any municipality with a population of 1.18 million or more located primarily in a county with a population of 2.5 million or more, the governing board of a private, nonprofit medical corporation, or of the parent corporation of such medical corporation, that provides police or security services for an institution of higher education or a private postsecondary educational institution located within one of the medical corporation's or parent corporation's medical complexes, or that provides police or security services for another medical complex legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or parent corporation, may employ and commission police or security personnel to enforce the law of this state within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).(b)  An officer commissioned under this section may make arrests and has all the powers, privileges, and immunities of a peace officer while performing the officer's assigned duties within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).  An officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(c)  The jurisdiction of an officer commissioned under this section is limited to:(1)  property under the control and jurisdiction of the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation or any entity legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or its parent corporation;(2)  a street or alley that abuts the property or an easement in or a right-of-way over or through the property described by Subdivision (1); and(3)  any other location in which the officer is performing duties assigned to the officer by the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the medical corporation or its parent corporation, provided that the assigned duties are consistent with the mission of the medical corporation or its parent corporation and are being performed within a county in which the medical corporation or its parent corporation owns real property.(d)  An officer commissioned under this section is not entitled to compensation or benefits provided by this state or a political subdivision of this state.(e)  The state or a political subdivision of this state is not liable for an act or omission of an officer commissioned under this section during the performance of the officer's assigned duties.(f)  A person may not be commissioned under this section unless the person obtains a peace officer license issued by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.  The employing medical corporation or parent corporation shall pay to the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement on behalf of an employee any fees that are necessary to obtain a required license.(g)  A person's commission and any authority to act as an officer under this section are automatically revoked if the person's employment is terminated for any reason.
Sec. 51.215.  ACCESS TO POLICE RECORDS OF EMPLOYMENT APPLICANTS.  (a)  An institution of higher education is entitled to obtain criminal history record information pertaining to an applicant for employment for a security-sensitive position.  The institution of higher education may deny employment to an applicant for a security-sensitive position who fails to provide a complete set of fingerprints upon request.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(c)  An institution of higher education may use information obtained under this section only for the purpose of evaluating applicants for employment in security-sensitive positions.  Security-sensitive positions shall be restricted to employees who handle currency, have access to a computer terminal, have access to a master key, or who work in an area of the institution which has been designated as a security-sensitive area.  A security-sensitive position shall be so identified in the job description and advertisement for the position.(d)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" means:(1)  an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(8) of this code;  and(2)  a private institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(15) of this code.
Sec. 51.217.  MULTIHAZARD EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; SAFETY AND SECURITY AUDIT.  (a)  In this section, "institution"  means a general academic teaching institution, a medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution shall adopt and implement a multihazard emergency operations plan for use at the institution.  The plan must address mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery.  The plan must provide for:(1)  employee training in responding to an emergency;(2)  mandatory drills to prepare students, faculty, and employees for responding to an emergency;(3)  measures to ensure coordination with the Department of State Health Services, local emergency management agencies, law enforcement, health departments, and fire departments in the event of an emergency; and(4)  the implementation of a safety and security audit as required by Subsection (c).(c)  At least once every three years, an institution shall conduct a safety and security audit of the institution's facilities.  To the extent possible, an institution shall follow safety and security audit procedures developed in consultation with the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(d)  An institution shall report the results of the safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) to the institution's board of regents and the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(e)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), any document or information collected, developed, or produced during a safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  A document relating to an institution's multihazard emergency operations plan is subject to disclosure if the document enables a person to:(1)  verify that the institution has established a plan and determine the agencies involved in the development of the plan and the agencies coordinating with the institution to respond to an emergency, including the Department of State Health Services, local emergency services agencies, law enforcement agencies, health departments, and fire departments;(2)  verify that the institution's plan was reviewed within the last 12 months and determine the specific review dates;(3)  verify that the plan addresses the four phases of emergency management under Subsection (b);(4)  verify that institution employees have been trained to respond to an emergency and determine the types of training, the number of employees trained, and the person conducting the training;(5)  verify that each campus has conducted mandatory emergency drills and exercises in accordance with the plan and determine the frequency of the drills;(6)  verify that the institution has completed a safety and security audit under Subsection (c) and determine the date the audit was conducted, the person conducting the audit, and the date the institution presented the results of the audit to the board of regents; and(7)  verify that the institution has addressed any recommendations by the board of regents for improvement of the plan and determine the institution's progress within the last 12 months.(g)  The personal information of an individual maintained in an institution's emergency notification system is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.  In this subsection, "personal information" includes an e-mail address or telephone number maintained in order to notify an individual of an emergency.
Sec. 51.218.  EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education and private or independent institution of higher education shall establish an emergency alert system for the institution's students and staff, including faculty.  The emergency alert system must use e-mail or telephone notifications in addition to any other alert method the institution considers appropriate to provide timely notification of emergencies affecting the institution or its students and staff.(c)  At the time a student initially enrolls or registers for courses or a staff member begins employment, the institution shall:(1)  obtain a personal telephone number or e-mail address from the student or staff member to be used to notify the individual in the event of an emergency; and(2)  register the student or staff member in the institution's emergency alert system.(d)  A student or staff member may elect not to participate in an emergency alert system established under this section.  An election under this subsection may be submitted electronically or in writing, as chosen by the institution, and must be renewed at the start of each academic year.(e)  The personal identifying information obtained from an individual for the purpose of the emergency alert system of an institution of higher education, including an e-mail address or telephone number, is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Section 552.021, Government Code.(f)  Expired.
Sec. 51.220.  PUBLIC JUNIOR COLLEGE SCHOOL MARSHALS.  (a)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a public junior college may appoint one or more school marshals.(c)  The governing board of a public junior college may select for appointment as a school marshal under this section an applicant who is an employee of the public junior college and certified as eligible for appointment under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code.  The governing board may, but shall not be required to, reimburse the amount paid by the applicant to participate in the training program under that section.(d)  A school marshal appointed by the governing board of a public junior college may carry a concealed handgun or possess a handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus, but only:(1)  in the manner provided by written regulations adopted by the governing board; and(2)  at a specific public junior college campus as specified by the governing board. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 795 (H.B. 781), Sec. 1 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d):(1)  must:(A)  authorize a school marshal to carry a concealed handgun as described by Subsection (d); and(B)  require a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal to be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement; and(2)  may not require a school marshal to store the handgun in a locked container while on duty. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 851 (S.B. 741), Sec. 3 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d) must provide that a school marshal may carry a concealed handgun on the school marshal's person or possess the handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus in a locked and secured safe or other locked and secured location.  The written regulations must also require that a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal may be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.(f)  A school marshal may use a handgun the school marshal is authorized to carry or possess under this section only under circumstances that would justify the use of deadly force under Section 9.32 or 9.33, Penal Code.(g)  A public junior college employee's status as a school marshal becomes inactive on:(1)  expiration of the employee's school marshal license under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code;(2)  suspension or revocation of the employee's license to carry a concealed handgun issued under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code;(3)  termination of the employee's employment with the public junior college; or(4)  notice from the governing board of the public junior college that the employee's services as school marshal are no longer required.(h)  The identity of a school marshal appointed under this section is confidential, except as provided by Section 1701.260(j), Occupations Code, and is not subject to a request under Chapter 552, Government Code.(i)  If a parent or guardian of a student enrolled at a public junior college inquires in writing, the governing board of the public junior college shall provide the parent or guardian written notice indicating whether any employee of the public junior college is currently appointed a school marshal.  The notice may not disclose information that is confidential under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.232.  IDENTIFICATION OF PERSONS ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, as determined by the chief administrative officer of a state-supported institution of higher education, the chief administrative officer, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility of the institution, may require that any person on the campus or facility present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official institutional identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution.(b)  If any person refuses or fails upon request to present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution, and if it reasonably appears that the person has no legitimate reason to be on the campus or facility, the person may be ejected from the campus or facility.
Sec. 51.233.  WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT TO REMAIN ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, may notify a person that consent to remain on the campus or facility under the control of the chief administrative officer has been withdrawn whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility.(b)  In no case shall consent be withdrawn for longer than 14 days from the date on which consent was initially withdrawn.(c)  Notification shall be in accordance with procedures set out in Section 51.234 of this code.
Sec. 51.234.  NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  When the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, decides to withdraw consent for any person to remain on the campus or facility, he shall notify that person in writing that consent to remain is withdrawn.  The written notice must contain all of the following:(1)  that consent to remain on the campus has been withdrawn and the number of days for which consent has been withdrawn, not to exceed 14;(2)  the name and job title of the person withdrawing consent, along with an address where the person withdrawing consent can be contacted during regular working hours;(3)  a brief statement of the activity or activities resulting in the withdrawal of consent;  and(4)  notification that the person from whom consent has been withdrawn is entitled to a hearing on the withdrawal not later than three days from the date of receipt by the chief administrative officer of a request for a hearing.
Sec. 51.236.  CONFIRMATION OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, a person designated by him for this purpose, upon reviewing the written report described in Section 51.235, finds that there was reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility, and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility, he may enter written confirmation upon the report of the action taken by the officer or employee.(b)  If the chief administrative officer, or in his absence, the person designated by him, does not confirm the action of the officer or employee within 24 hours after the time that consent was withdrawn, the action of the officer or employee shall be deemed void and of no force or effect, except that any arrest made during the period shall not for this reason be deemed not to have been made for probable cause.
Sec. 51.237.  REQUEST FOR HEARING.  (a)  A person from whom consent has been withdrawn may submit a written request for a hearing on the withdrawal to the chief administrative officer within the 14-day period.  The written request must state the address to which notice of hearing is to be sent.  The chief administrative officer shall grant a hearing not later than three days from the date of receipt of the request and shall immediately mail a written notice of the time, place, and date of the hearing to the person.(b)  The hearing shall be held before a duly designated discipline committee or authorized hearing officer of the institution in accordance with Section 51.243.  In no instance shall the person issuing the withdrawal notice or causing it to be issued serve on any committee where the validity of his order of withdrawal is in question.
Sec. 51.239.  ENTERING OR REMAINING ON CAMPUS AFTER WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  Any person who has been notified by the chief administrative officer of a campus or facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or by an officer or employee designated by the chief administrative officer to maintain order on the campus or facility, that consent to remain on the campus or facility has been withdrawn pursuant to Section 51.233, who has not had consent reinstated, and who willfully and knowingly enters or remains upon the campus or facility during the period for which consent has been withdrawn, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(b)  This section does not apply to any person who enters or remains on the campus or facility for the sole purpose of applying to the chief administrative officer or authorized officer or employee for the reinstatement of consent or for the sole purpose of attending a hearing on the withdrawal.
Sec. 51.241.  STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES BARRED FROM CAMPUS AFTER SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL.  (a)  Every student or employee who has been suspended or dismissed from a state-supported institution of higher education after a hearing, in accordance with procedures established by the institution, for disrupting the orderly operation of the campus or facility of the institution, as a condition of the suspension or dismissal, may be denied access to the campus or facility, or both, of the institution for the period of suspension, and in the case of dismissal, for a period not to exceed one year.(b)  A person who has been notified by personal service of the suspension or dismissal and condition and who willfully and knowingly enters upon the campus or facility of the institution to which he has been denied access, without the express written permission of the chief administrative officer of the campus or facility, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(c)  Knowledge shall be presumed if personal service has been given as prescribed in Subsection (b) of this section.
Sec. 51.243.  REQUIRED HEARING PROCEDURES.  A person from whom consent to remain on the campus of a state-supported institution of higher education has been withdrawn in accordance with Section 51.233 is entitled, in addition to the procedures set out in Section 51.234, to the following:(1)  to be represented by counsel;(2)  to the right to call and examine witnesses and to cross-examine adverse witnesses;(3)  to have all matters upon which the decision may be based introduced into evidence at the hearing in his presence;(4)  to have the decision based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing;(5)  to prohibit the introduction of statements made against him unless he has been advised of their content and the names of the persons who made them, and has been given the opportunity to rebut unfavorable inferences that might otherwise be drawn;  and(6)  to have all findings made at the hearing be final, subject only to his right to appeal to the president and the governing board of the institution.
SUBCHAPTER E-2.  REPORTING INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.251.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" mean dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as applicable, that an institution of higher education is required to report under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)).(3)  "Employee of a postsecondary educational institution" does not include a student enrolled at the institution.(4)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(5)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.252.  REPORTING REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution who, in the course and scope of employment, witnesses or receives information regarding the occurrence of an incident that the employee reasonably believes constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who was a student enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the incident shall promptly report the incident to the institution's Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c) or (c-1), the report must include all information concerning the incident known to the reporting person that is relevant to the investigation and, if applicable, redress of the incident, including whether an alleged victim has expressed a desire for confidentiality in reporting the incident.(c)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution designated by the institution as a person with whom students may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking or who receives information regarding such an incident under circumstances that render the employee's communications confidential or privileged under other law shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include any information that would violate a student's expectation of privacy.  This subsection does not affect the employee's duty to report an incident under any other law.(c-1)  A campus peace officer employed by a postsecondary educational institution who receives information regarding an incident described by Subsection (a) from an alleged victim who chooses to complete a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure, shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include the victim's name, phone number, address, or other information that may directly or indirectly reveal the victim's identity.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), a person is not required to make a report under this section concerning:(1)  an incident in which the person was a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking; or(2)  an incident of which the person received information due to a disclosure made at a sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking public awareness event sponsored by a postsecondary educational institution or by a student organization affiliated with the institution.
Sec. 51.253.  ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.  (a)  Not less than once every three months, the Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's chief executive officer a written report on the reports received under Section 51.252, including information regarding:(1)  the investigation of those reports;(2)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports; and(3)  the reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any.(b)  The Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall immediately report to the institution's chief executive officer an incident reported to the coordinator under Section 51.252 if the coordinator has cause to believe that the safety of any person is in imminent danger as a result of the incident.(c)  Subject to Subsection (d), at least once during each fall or spring semester, the chief executive officer of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's governing body and post on the institution's Internet website a report concerning the reports received under Section 51.252.  The report:(1)  may not identify any person; and(2)  must include:(A)  the number of reports received under Section 51.252;(B)  the number of investigations conducted as a result of those reports;(C)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports;(D)  the number of those reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any; and(E)  any disciplinary actions taken under Section 51.255.(d)  If for any semester a postsecondary educational institution has fewer than 1,500 enrolled students, the chief executive officer of the institution shall submit and post a report required under Subsection (c) for that semester only if more than five reports were received under Section 51.252 during that semester.
Sec. 51.254.  IMMUNITIES.  (a)  A person acting in good faith who reports or assists in the investigation of a report of an incident described by Section 51.252(a) or who testifies or otherwise participates in a disciplinary process or judicial proceeding arising from a report of such an incident:(1)  is immune from civil liability, and from criminal liability for offenses punishable by fine only, that might otherwise be incurred or imposed as a result of those actions; and(2)  may not be subjected to any disciplinary action by the postsecondary educational institution at which the person is enrolled or employed for any violation by the person of the institution's code of conduct reasonably related to the incident for which suspension or expulsion from the institution is not a possible punishment.(b)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a person who perpetrates or assists in the perpetration of the incident reported under Section 51.252.
Sec. 51.256.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  Unless waived in writing by the alleged victim, the identity of an alleged victim of an incident reported under Section 51.252:(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  persons employed by or under contract with the postsecondary educational institution to which the report is made who are necessary to conduct an investigation of the report or any related hearings;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report;(C)  the person or persons alleged to have perpetrated the incident, to the extent required by other law; or(D)  potential witnesses to the incident as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report.(b)  A disclosure under Subsection (a) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed as prohibiting a victim from making a report to a law enforcement agency using a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.258.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  The chief executive officer of each postsecondary educational institution shall annually certify in writing to the coordinating board that the institution is in substantial compliance with this subchapter.(b)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(c)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (b), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (b) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(e)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (b) using state or federal money.(f)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(g)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the calendar year preceding the date of the report.
SUBCHAPTER E-3.  SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.281.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" have the meanings assigned by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)(6)(A)).(3)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(4)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.282.  POLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKING.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall adopt a policy on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking applicable to each student enrolled at and each employee of the institution.  The policy must:(1)  include:(A)  definitions of prohibited behavior;(B)  sanctions for violations;(C)  the protocol for reporting and responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking;(D)  interim measures to protect victims of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking during the pendency of the institution's disciplinary process, including protection from retaliation, and any other accommodations available to those victims at the institution; and(E)  a statement regarding:(i)  the importance of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking going to a hospital for treatment and preservation of evidence, if applicable, as soon as practicable after the incident;(ii)  the right of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to report the incident to the institution and to receive a prompt and equitable resolution of the report; and(iii)  the right of a victim of a crime to choose whether to report the crime to law enforcement, to be assisted by the institution in reporting the crime to law enforcement, or to decline to report the crime to law enforcement; and(2)  be approved by the institution's governing board before final adoption by the institution.(b)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall make the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy available to students, faculty, and staff members by:(1)  including the policy in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook; and(2)  creating and maintaining a web page dedicated solely to the policy that is easily accessible through a clearly identifiable link on the institution's Internet website home page.(c)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall require each entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student to attend an orientation on the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy before or during the first semester or term in which the student is enrolled at the institution.  The institution shall establish the format and content of the orientation.  The orientation:(1)  may be provided online; and(2)  must include the statements described by Subsection (a)(1)(E).(d)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and implement a comprehensive prevention and outreach program on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The program must:(1)  address a range of strategies to prevent sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking, including a victim empowerment program, a public awareness campaign, primary prevention, bystander intervention, and risk reduction; and(2)  include providing to students information regarding the protocol for reporting incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), including the name, office location, and contact information of the institution's Title IX coordinator, by:(A)  e-mailing the information to each student at the beginning of each semester or other academic term; and(B)  including the information in the orientation required under Subsection (c).(e)  As part of the protocol for responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  to the greatest extent practicable based on the number of counselors employed by the institution, ensure that each alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and any other person who reports such an incident are offered counseling provided by a counselor who does not provide counseling to any other person involved in the incident; and(2)  notwithstanding any other law, allow an alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to drop a course in which both parties are enrolled without any academic penalty.(f)  Each biennium, each postsecondary educational institution shall review the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy and, with approval of the institution's governing board, revise the policy as necessary.
Sec. 51.2825.  CERTAIN DUTIES OF CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER INVESTIGATING FAMILY VIOLENCE, STALKING, HARASSMENT, OR TERRORISTIC THREAT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Campus peace officer" means a peace officer commissioned under Section 51.203 or 51.212.(2)  "Family violence" has the meaning assigned by Section 71.004, Family Code.(3)  "Harassment" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.07, Penal Code.(4)  "Stalking" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.072, Penal Code.(5)  "Terroristic threat" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 22.07, Penal Code.(b)  A campus peace officer who responds to a disturbance call that may involve family violence or investigates an allegation of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat shall advise any possible adult victim of all reasonable means to prevent the occurrence of further offenses, including by providing the written notice adopted by the Health and Human Services Commission under Section 51A.003, Human Resources Code.  In addition to the required notice under this subsection, a campus peace officer shall provide to the possible victim any available written information regarding campus and local resources for victims of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat.
Sec. 51.284.  AMNESTY FOR STUDENTS REPORTING CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a) A postsecondary educational institution may not take any disciplinary action against a student enrolled at the institution who in good faith reports to the institution being the victim of, or a witness to, an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking for a violation by the student of the institution's code of conduct occurring at or near the time of the incident, regardless of the location at which the incident occurred or the outcome of the institution's disciplinary process regarding the incident, if any.(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may investigate to determine whether a report of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking was made in good faith.(c)  A determination that a student is entitled to amnesty under Subsection (a) is final and may not be revoked.(d)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a student who reports the student's own commission or assistance in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.(e)  This section may not be construed to limit a postsecondary educational institution's ability to provide amnesty from application of the institution's policies in circumstances not described by Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.285.  VICTIM REQUEST NOT TO INVESTIGATE.  (a)  If an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident, the institution may investigate the alleged incident in a manner that complies with the confidentiality requirements under Section 51.291.  In determining whether to investigate the alleged incident, the institution shall consider:(1)  the seriousness of the alleged incident;(2)  whether the institution has received other reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed by the alleged perpetrator or perpetrators;(3)  whether the alleged incident poses a risk of harm to others; and(4)  any other factors the institution determines relevant.(b)  If a postsecondary educational institution decides not to investigate an alleged incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking based on the alleged victim's request not to investigate, the institution shall take any steps the institution determines necessary to protect the health and safety of the institution's community in relation to the alleged incident.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution shall inform an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking who requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident of the institution's decision whether to investigate the alleged incident.
Sec. 51.286.  DISCIPLINARY PROCESS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.  A postsecondary educational institution that initiates a disciplinary process concerning an allegation that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking shall:(1)  provide to the student and the alleged victim a prompt and equitable opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence relevant to the alleged violation during the disciplinary process;(2)  ensure that both the student and the alleged victim have reasonable and equitable access to all evidence relevant to the alleged violation in the institution's possession, including any statements made by the alleged victim or by other persons, information stored electronically, written or electronic communications, social media posts, or physical evidence, redacted as necessary to comply with any applicable federal or state law regarding confidentiality; and(3)  take reasonable steps to protect the student and the alleged victim from retaliation and harassment during the pendency of the disciplinary process.
Sec. 51.287.  STUDENT WITHDRAWAL OR GRADUATION PENDING DISCIPLINARY CHARGES.  (a)  If a student withdraws or graduates from a postsecondary educational institution pending a disciplinary charge alleging that the student violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, the institution:(1)  may not end the disciplinary process or issue a transcript to the student until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility; and(2)  shall expedite the institution's disciplinary process as necessary to accommodate both the student's and the alleged victim's interest in a speedy resolution.(b)  On request by another postsecondary educational institution, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide to the requesting institution information relating to a determination by the institution that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.
Sec. 51.290.  RESPONSIBLE AND CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE; STUDENT ADVOCATE.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  designate:(A)  one or more employees to act as responsible employees for purposes of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Section 1681 et seq.); and(B)  one or more employees as persons to whom students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking; and(2)  inform each student enrolled at the institution of the responsible and confidential employees designated under Subdivision (1).(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may designate one or more students enrolled at the institution as student advocates to whom other students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The institution shall notify each student enrolled at the institution of the student advocates designated under this subsection.(c)  A confidential employee designated under Subsection (a)(1)(B) or a student advocate designated under Subsection (b) may not disclose any communication made by a student to the employee or advocate unless the student consents to the disclosure or the employee or advocate is required to make the disclosure under state or federal law.
Sec. 51.291.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  The protections provided by this section apply to:(1)  an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution;(2)  a person who reports to a postsecondary educational institution an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, who sought guidance from the institution concerning such an incident, or who participated in the institution's investigation of such an incident; and(3)  a person who is alleged in a report made to a postsecondary educational institution to have committed or assisted in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking if, after completing an investigation, the institution determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(b)  Unless waived in writing by the person, the identity of a person described by Subsection (a):(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  the postsecondary educational institution to which the report described by Subsection (a) is made as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report described by Subsection (a); or(C)  a health care provider in an emergency situation, as determined necessary by the institution.(c)  A disclosure under Subsection (b) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(d)  Information regarding an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking disclosed to a health care provider or other medical provider employed by a postsecondary educational institution is confidential and may be shared by the provider only with the victim's consent. The provider must provide aggregate data or other nonidentifying information regarding those incidents to the institution's Title IX coordinator.
Sec. 51.292.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(b)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (a), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (a) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (a) using state or federal money.(e)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(f)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the preceding year.
SUBCHAPTER F. REQUIRED AND ELECTIVE COURSESSec. 51.301.  GOVERNMENT OR POLITICAL SCIENCE.  (a)  Every college and university receiving state support or state aid from public funds shall give a course of instruction in government or political science which includes consideration of the Constitution of the United States and the constitutions of the states, with special emphasis on that of Texas.  This course shall have a credit value of not less than six semester hours or its equivalent.  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for such a course.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or in part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by the student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(b)  The requirement of Subsection (a) that the required course must include special emphasis on the Texas Constitution does not apply to a degree granted on completion of an academic program offered by a medical and dental unit, as that term is defined by Section 61.003, to a student who is a member of the armed forces of the United States, including the reserves or national guard, if:(1)  the program is operated by the medical and dental unit under contract with the United States Army;(2)  the program requires less than two years of residency in this state;  and(3)  the principal participants in the program are military personnel stationed outside this state.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (a) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Subsection (d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  The American Way course authorized by Subsection (c)(2) must be designed to provide a foreign student with a familiarity and understanding of United States government and civic life and their sources, development, and character.  The course must concentrate on important texts, including the United States Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, on the works and contributions of influential authors, political and cultural leaders, and other important figures, and on important events and developments in United States history.  The course must cover important developments in human and civil rights, including the civil rights movement and the history of women's rights.  The course must cover the history and development of the State of Texas and its place in United States history and culture.  The course must consist of four semester credit hours, with one semester credit hour in practicum activities intended to provide the student with experience in the three branches of government through participation at the federal, state, or local level.  The course may not be taken for course credit by a student other than a student described by Subsection (c).(e)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.302.  AMERICAN OR TEXAS HISTORY.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for six semester hours or its equivalent in American History.  A student is entitled to submit as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent in Texas History in partial satisfaction of this requirement.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university, or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by a student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (b) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Section 51.301(d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  A college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds that does not offer at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History to undergraduate students shall enter into an agreement with another postsecondary educational institution to offer to the college or university's undergraduate students at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History.
Sec. 51.3041.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall consider, in determining whether to award to a student course credit toward a degree or certificate offered by the institution for the student's completion of certain military training:(1)  any official military record presented to the institution by the student that:(A)  describes the substance of the training completed by the student; and(B)  verifies the student's successful completion of that training; and(2)  whether the substance of that training satisfies the purpose of the course for which the student seeks credit as described in the institution's course catalog.(c)  This section applies to a student who has completed certain military training and is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242.
Sec. 51.3042.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall award to an undergraduate student who is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242, course credit for all physical education courses required by the institution for an undergraduate degree and for additional semester credit hours, not to exceed 12, that may be applied to satisfy any elective course requirements for the student's degree program for courses outside the student's major or minor if the student:(1)  graduated from a public or private high school accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; and(2)  is an honorably discharged former member of the armed forces of the United States who:(A)  completed at least two years of service in the armed forces; or(B)  was discharged because of a disability.(c)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from awarding additional course credit for a student's military service as the institution considers appropriate.(d)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's military service and of the student's military discharge status.
Sec. 51.305.  PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The coordinating board by rule shall:(1)  require a general academic teaching institution to offer training in personal financial literacy to provide students of the institution with the knowledge and skills necessary as self-supporting adults to make critical decisions relating to personal financial matters; and(2)  determine the topics to be covered by the training, which may include budgeting, credit cards, spending, saving, loan repayment and consolidation, taxes, retirement planning, insurance, and financing of health care and other benefits.(c)  The coordinating board by rule may provide for the training required under this section to be offered in an online course.(d)  Expired.
Sec. 51.309.  PAIN TREATMENT MEDICAL EDUCATION COURSE WORK.  (a)  Each medical school shall determine the extent to which pain treatment medical education course work is meeting the instructional elements described in Subsection (b) and is offered to all students enrolled in medical schools.(b)  Pain treatment medical education course work should include instruction in:(1)  pain assessment in adults, children, and special populations, including elderly and impaired individuals;(2)  pain anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology, and pharmacology of opioid and nonopioid analgesic drugs, including pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics;(3)  the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of drug administration, side effects, treatment outcome, and the outcome of behavioral and other psychological therapy for pain;(4)  the psychological, social, economic, and emotional impact of malignant and nonmalignant acute and chronic pain on patients;(5)  indications for and outcomes of anesthetic and neurosurgical pain-relieving techniques, including nerve blocks and neuroaugmentative and neuroablative techniques;  and(6)  the outcome of treatment of pain emanating from a damaged nervous system and neuropathic pain.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.02, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.332.  APPLICABILITY.  This subchapter does not apply to:(1)  a student who has graduated with an associate or baccalaureate degree from an institution of higher education;(2)  a student who transfers to an institution of higher education from a private or independent institution of higher education or an accredited out-of-state institution of higher education and who has satisfactorily completed college-level coursework;(3)  a student who is enrolled in a certificate program of one year or less at a public junior college, a public technical institute, or a public state college;(4)  a student who is serving on active duty as a member of:(A)  the armed forces of the United States; or(B)  the Texas National Guard;(5)  a student who is currently serving as and, for at least the three-year period preceding enrollment, has served as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States; or(6)  a student who on or after August 1, 1990, was honorably discharged, retired, or released from:(A)  active duty as a member of the armed forces of the United States or the Texas National Guard; or(B)  service as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.05, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.06, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.336.  DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may refer a student to developmental coursework, including basic academic skills education, as considered necessary by the institution to address a student's deficiencies in the student's readiness to perform freshman-level academic coursework, except that the institution may not require enrollment in developmental coursework with respect to a student previously determined under Section 51.338(d) or by any institution of higher education to have met college-readiness standards. (b)  An institution of higher education that requires a student to enroll in developmental coursework must offer a range of developmental coursework, including online coursework, or instructional support that includes the integration of technology to efficiently address the particular developmental needs of the student.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall develop and implement for developmental coursework, other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education, developmental education using a corequisite model under which a student concurrently enrolls in a developmental education course and a freshman-level course in the same subject area for each subject area for which the student is referred to developmental coursework.  Each institution shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the institution's students enrolled in developmental coursework other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education are enrolled in developmental coursework described by this subsection.(d)  If a student fails to satisfactorily complete a freshman-level course described by Subsection (c), the institution of higher education shall: (1)  review the plan developed for the student under Section 51.335(a) and, if necessary, work with the student to revise the plan; and(2)  offer to the student a range of competency-based education programs to assist the student in becoming ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework in the applicable subject area.(e)  An institution of higher education must base developmental coursework on research-based best practices that include the following components:(1)  assessment;(2)  differentiated placement and instruction;(3)  faculty development;(4)  support services;(5)  program evaluation;(6)  integration of technology with an emphasis on instructional support programs;(7)  non-course-based developmental education interventions; and(8)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), course pairing of developmental education courses with credit-bearing courses.(f)  To allow a student to complete any necessary developmental coursework in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, the board shall encourage institutions of higher education to offer various types of developmental coursework that address various levels of deficiency in readiness to perform college coursework for which course credit may be earned, as determined on the basis of assessments as described by Section 51.334.  The types of developmental coursework may include:(1)  course-based programs;(2)  non-course-based programs, such as advising programs;(3)  module format programs;(4)  competency-based education programs;(5)  basic academic skills education, if applicable to the student; and(6)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), programs under which the student is pairing or taking concurrently a developmental education course and another course in the same subject area for which course credit may be earned.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.07, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.08, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.338.  EXEMPTIONS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may exempt a non-degree-seeking or non-certificate-seeking student from the requirements of this subchapter.(b)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on the SAT or ACT is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  An exemption under this subsection is effective for the five-year period following the date a student takes the test and achieves the standard set by the board.(c)  A student who has achieved scores set by the board on the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The exemption is effective for the three-year period following the date a student takes the last assessment instrument for purposes of this subchapter and achieves the standard set by the board.  This subsection does not apply during any period for which the board designates the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) as the primary assessment instrument under this subchapter, except that the three-year period described by this subsection remains in effect for students who qualify for an exemption under this subsection before that period.(d)  A student who has demonstrated the performance standard for college readiness as provided by Section 28.008 on the postsecondary readiness assessment instruments adopted under Section 39.0238 for Algebra II and English III, as that section existed before repeal by H.B. 4545, Acts of the 87th Legislature, Regular Session, 2021, is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to those content areas.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.(e)  A student who successfully completes a college preparatory course under Section 28.014 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to the content area of the course, provided that the student satisfies the requirements of Subsection (f) of this section.  The exemption is effective for the two-year period following the date the student graduates from high school.  The exemption applies only at the institution of higher education that partners with the school district in which the student is enrolled to provide the course, except that the commissioner of higher education by rule may determine the manner in which the exemption may be applied to institutions of higher education other than the partnering institution.(f)  A student receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) must enroll in a college-level course in the exempted content area during the student's first year of enrollment at an institution of higher education occurring after the student qualifies for the exemption. If the student earns a grade below a "C" for the course, the institution shall advise the student of non-course-based options for attaining college readiness, such as tutoring or accelerated learning.(g)  The board shall:(1)  collect and analyze data regarding the effectiveness of college preparatory courses provided under Section 28.014 in assisting students to become ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework, as measured by the rate at which students receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) successfully complete the course described by Subsection (f); and(2)  in November of each even-numbered year, submit a report of the board's findings to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education, and each institution of higher education and school district that offers a college preparatory course under Section 28.014.(h)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on a high school equivalency examination administered under Section 7.111 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.09, eff. June 15, 2017.Amended by: Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1086 (H.B. 1891), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2019.Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 910 (H.B. 4545), Sec. 9, eff. June 16, 2021.
Sec. 51.340.  FUNDING.  (a)  The legislature shall appropriate money for approved non-degree-credit developmental courses, including basic academic skills education, except that legislative appropriations may not be used for developmental coursework taken by a student in excess of:(1)  for a general academic teaching institution:(A)  9 semester credit hours; or(B)  18 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages; and(2)  for a public junior college, public technical institute, or public state college:(A)  18 semester credit hours; or(B)  27 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages.(b)  The board may develop formulas to supplement the funding of developmental academic programs by institutions of higher education, including formulas for supplementing the funding of non-course-based programs. The board may develop a performance funding formula by which institutions of higher education may receive additional funding for each student who completes the success initiative established under this subchapter and then successfully completes college coursework. The legislature may appropriate the money required to provide the additional funding under those formulas.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.11, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.15, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.352.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS.  (a)  It is the policy of this state that the governing boards of institutions of higher education, being composed of lay members, shall exercise the traditional and time-honored role for such boards as their role has evolved in the United States and shall constitute the keystone of the governance structure.  In this regard each governing board:(1)  is expected to preserve institutional independence and to defend its right to manage its own affairs through its chosen administrators and employees;(2)  shall enhance the public image of each institution under its governance;(3)  shall interpret the community to the campus and interpret the campus to the community;(4)  shall nurture each institution under its governance to the end that each institution achieves its full potential within its role and mission;  and(5)  shall insist on clarity of focus and mission of each institution under its governance.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall provide the policy direction for each institution of higher education under its management and control.(c)  In making or confirming appointments to a governing board, the governor and senate shall ensure that the appointee has the background and experience suitable for performing the statutory responsibility of a member of the governing board.(d)  In addition to powers and duties specifically granted by this code or other law, each governing board shall:(1)  establish, for each institution under its control and management, goals consistent with the role and mission of the institution;(2)  appoint the chancellor or other chief executive officer of the system, if the board governs a university system;(3)  appoint the president or other chief executive officer of each institution under the board's control and management and evaluate the chief executive officer of each component institution and assist the officer in the achievement of performance goals;(4)  set campus admission standards consistent with the role and mission of the institution and considering the admission standards of similar institutions nationwide having a similar role and mission, as determined by the coordinating board;  and(5)  ensure that its formal position on matters of importance to the institutions under its governance is made clear to the coordinating board when such matters are under consideration by the coordinating board.(e)  Each member of a governing board has the legal responsibilities of a fiduciary in the management of funds under the control of institutions subject to the board's control and management.(f)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of that institution shall adopt a policy to enhance the transfer of students based on the recommendations of the permanent advisory committee under Section 51.3521 of this code.
Sec. 51.3521.  PERMANENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES.  (a)  Permanent advisory committees are established.(b)  Each committee consists of the president, or the president's designee, of each general academic teaching institution and of each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  Each committee shall biennially elect a presiding officer.(d)  Each committee may elect other officers.(e)  Each committee shall adopt rules to govern the time and place of meetings and the transaction of business.(f)  Each committee shall:(1)  periodically study regional higher education needs in this state;  and(2)  make recommendations to the governing boards of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college represented regarding degree programs, core curricula, and joint faculty appointments to enhance the transfer of students and the coordinated working relationships between those institutions.
Sec. 51.3525.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS REGARDING DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION INITIATIVES.  (a)  In this section, "diversity, equity, and inclusion office" means an office, division, or other unit of an institution of higher education established for the purpose of:(1)  influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes in accordance with any applicable state and federal antidiscrimination laws;(2)  promoting differential treatment of or providing special benefits to individuals on the basis of race, color, or ethnicity;(3)  promoting policies or procedures designed or implemented in reference to race, color, or ethnicity, other than policies or procedures approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; or(4)  conducting trainings, programs, or activities designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation, other than trainings, programs, or activities developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall ensure that each unit of the institution:(1)  does not, except as required by federal law:(A)  establish or maintain a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(B)  hire or assign an employee of the institution or contract with a third party to perform the duties of a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(C)  compel, require, induce, or solicit any person to provide a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement or give preferential consideration to any person based on the provision of a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement;(D)  give preference on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin to an applicant for employment, an employee, or a participant in any function of the institution; or(E)  require as a condition of enrolling at the institution or performing any institution function any person to participate in diversity, equity, and inclusion training, which:(i)  includes a training, program, or activity designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation; and(ii)  does not include a training, program, or activity developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; and(2)  adopts policies and procedures for appropriately disciplining, including by termination, an employee or contractor of the institution who engages in conduct in violation of Subdivision (1).(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed to limit or prohibit an institution of higher education or an employee of an institution of higher education from, for purposes of applying for a grant or complying with the terms of accreditation by an accrediting agency, submitting to the grantor or accrediting agency a statement that:(1)  highlights the institution's work in supporting:(A)  first-generation college students;(B)  low-income students; or(C)  underserved student populations; or(2)  certifies compliance with state and federal antidiscrimination laws.(d)  Subsection (b)(1) may not be construed to apply to:(1)  academic course instruction;(2)  scholarly research or a creative work by an institution of higher education's students, faculty, or other research personnel or the dissemination of that research or work;(3)  an activity of a student organization registered with or recognized by an institution of higher education;(4)  guest speakers or performers on short-term engagements;(5)  a policy, practice, procedure, program, or activity to enhance student academic achievement or postgraduate outcomes that is designed and implemented without regard to race, sex, color, or ethnicity;(6)  data collection; or(7)  student recruitment or admissions.(e)  An institution of higher education may not spend money appropriated to the institution for a state fiscal year until the governing board of the institution submits to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board a report certifying the board's compliance with this section during the preceding state fiscal year.(f)  In the interim between each regular session of the legislature, the governing board of each institution of higher education, or the board's designee, shall testify before the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education at a public hearing of the committee regarding the board's compliance with this section.(g)  The state auditor shall periodically conduct a compliance audit of each institution of higher education to determine whether the institution has spent state money in violation of this section.  The state auditor shall adopt a schedule by which the state auditor will conduct compliance audits under this subsection.  The schedule must ensure that each institution of higher education is audited at least once every four years.(h)  If the state auditor determines pursuant to a compliance audit conducted under Subsection (g) that an institution of higher education has spent state money in violation of this section, the institution:(1)  must cure the violation not later than the 180th day after the date on which the determination is made; and(2)  if the institution fails to cure the violation during the period described by Subdivision (1), is ineligible to receive formula funding increases, institutional enhancements, or exceptional items during the state fiscal biennium immediately following the state fiscal biennium in which the determination is made.(i)  A student or employee of an institution of higher education who is required to participate in training in violation of Subsection (b)(1)(E) may bring an action against the institution for injunctive or declaratory relief.(j)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in coordination with institutions of higher education, shall conduct a biennial study to identify the impact of the implementation of this section on the application rate, acceptance rate, matriculation rate, retention rate, grade point average, and graduation rate of students at institutions of higher education, disaggregated by race, sex, and ethnicity.  Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, the coordinating board shall submit to the legislature a report on the results of the study and any recommendations for legislative or other action.  This subsection expires September 1, 2029.
Sec. 51.355.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; UNIVERSITY SYSTEM BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit.(b)  The chancellor of each university system shall develop a uniform application form to be used by each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in the university system to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in a university system shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the chancellor of the university system.  From among those applicants, the chancellor shall select two or more applicants as the university system's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student governments and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the system for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the chancellor, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the system as described by this subsection.(d)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the university system and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution or unit for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution or unit for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution or unit for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution or unit in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution or unit for the following fall semester.(d-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(e)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the system for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the system, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(f)  The student government of the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit at which a current student regent was enrolled at the time of the student regent's appointment may not solicit applicants for the position of student regent for the next regular term of the position.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for a university system shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the chancellor of the system.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (d-1) from the president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.356.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution that is not a part of a university system.(b)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  The president of a general academic teaching institution shall develop a uniform application form to be used to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(d)  Not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of the general academic teaching institution shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the president of the institution.  From among those applicants, the president shall select two or more applicants as the institution's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student government and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the institution for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the president, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of the institution as described by this subsection.(e)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in the general academic teaching institution and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution for the following fall semester.(e-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(f)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the institution for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the institution, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for an institution shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the president of the institution.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (e-1) from the president of the institution that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.402.  REPORT OF INSTITUTIONAL AND ACADEMIC DUTIES.  (a)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, in cooperation with governing boards, institutional officials, and faculty representatives of general academic institutions of higher education, shall develop and recommend general policies and standard reports for academic faculty workloads and services.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education in the state shall adopt rules and regulations concerning faculty academic workloads.  In adopting rules under this subsection, each institution shall recognize that classroom teaching, basic and applied research, and professional development are important elements of faculty academic workloads by giving appropriate weight to each activity when determining the standards for faculty academic workload.  An institution may give the same or different weight to each activity and to other activities recognized by the institution as important elements of faculty academic workloads. (c)  Within 30 days of the end of each academic year, the institution shall file with its governing board a report, by department, of the academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty during the nine-month academic year, showing evidence of compliance with requirements established by the governing board.  The report of academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty shall indicate all appointments held by the faculty member in the employing institution, the salary paid to each appointment, the percent of time of each appointment, and the source of funds from which salary payments were made.  Teaching responsibilities in each workload standard shall be in proportion to the portion of salary paid from funds appropriated for instructional purposes.(d)  The institutional head of each higher education institution shall designate the officer of his staff who will monitor workloads, prepare and review appropriate workload reports, and submit the reports to the institutional head for his certification or approval and comments as may be appropriate.
Sec. 51.403.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR COURSES; REPORTS OF STUDENT ENROLLMENT AND ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE.  (a)  All higher education institutions of this state shall offer only such courses and teach such classes as are economically justified in the considered judgment of the appropriate governing board.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(13), eff. June 17, 2011.(e)  Under guidelines established by the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, and the State Board of Education, postsecondary institutions shall report student performance during the first year enrolled after graduation from high school to the high school or junior college last attended.  This report shall include, but not be limited to, appropriate student test scores, a description of developmental courses required, and the student's grade point average.  Appropriate safeguards for student privacy shall be included in the rules for implementation of this subsection.
Sec. 51.4032.  ANNUAL REPORT OF PARTICIPATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION.  Not later than December 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit as defined in  Section 61.003 shall provide to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and shall publish on the institution's website a report describing the composition of the institution's entering class of students.  The report must include a demographic breakdown of the class, including a breakdown by race, ethnicity, economic status, and high school class standing.  A report submitted by a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit as defined in Section 61.003 must include separate demographic breakdowns of the students admitted under Sections 51.803, 51.804, and 51.805 and a description of any plans, policies, or programs developed or implemented by the institution to recruit and retain students from underrepresented groups such as racial or ethnic minority groups.
Sec. 51.4033.  REPORT OF NONTRANSFERABLE CREDIT.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report describing any courses in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board for which a student who transfers to the institution from another institution of higher education is not granted:(1)  academic credit at the receiving institution; or(2)  if the student has declared a major and has not changed majors, academic credit toward the student's major at the receiving institution.(b)  A report required by this section must indicate:(1)  the course name and type;(2)  which institution of higher education provided academic credit for the course; and(3)  the reason why the receiving institution did not grant academic credit for the course as described by Subsection (a), including whether the institution complied with the dispute resolution process under Section 61.826.
Sec. 51.4034.  REPORT OF COURSES TAKEN AT JUNIOR COLLEGES.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each public junior college shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report on courses taken by students who, during the preceding academic year, transferred to a general academic teaching institution or earned an associate degree at the college.(b)  A report required by this section must include the total number of:(1)  courses attempted and completed at the college, including the total number of semester credit hours for those courses, disaggregated by whether the course is in:(A)  the Workforce Education Course Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board; or(B)  the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(2)  courses attempted and completed at the college that are not in the recommended core curriculum developed by the coordinating board under Section 61.822; and(3)  dual credit courses, including courses for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008, attempted and completed at the college.
Sec. 51.406.  EXPIRATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  In this section, "university system" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To the extent that any of the following laws require reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education, a university system or institution of higher education is not required to make the report on or after September 1, 2013, unless legislation enacted by the 83rd Legislature that becomes law expressly requires the institution or system to make the report:(1)  Section 7.109;(2)  Section 33.083;(3)  Section 59.07;(4)  Section 130.251;(5)  Section 325.007, Government Code;(6)  Section 669.003, Government Code;(7)  Section 2005.007, Government Code;(8)  Section 2054.097, Government Code;(9)  Chapter 2114, Government Code; and(10)  Section 2205.041, Government Code.(c)  A rule or policy of a state agency, including the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in effect on June 1, 2011, that requires reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education has no effect on or after September 1, 2013, unless the rule or policy is affirmatively and formally readopted before that date by formal administrative rule published in the Texas Register and adopted in compliance with Chapter 2001, Government Code.  This subsection does not apply to:(1)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is listed in Subsection (b);(2)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is repealed on or before September 1, 2013, by legislation enacted by the legislature that becomes law; or(3)  a report required under any of the following provisions:(A)  Article 59.06(g)(1), Code of Criminal Procedure;(B)  Section 51.005;(C)  Section 51.0051;(D)  Subchapter F-1 of this chapter;(E)  Section 51.402;(F)  Section 56.039;(G)  Section 61.059;(H)   Section 62.098;(I)  Section 411.187(b), Government Code;(J)  Subchapter C, Chapter 606, Government Code;(K)  Subchapter E, Chapter 815, Government Code; or(L)  Chapter 1551, Insurance Code.(d)  At least every five years, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall reevaluate its rules and policies to ensure the continuing need for the data requests the coordinating board imposes on university systems, institutions of higher education, or private or independent institutions of higher education.  The coordinating board shall consult with those entities to identify unnecessary data requests and shall eliminate data requests identified as unnecessary from its rules and policies.  In this subsection, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(e)  This section does not apply to a request for information by the state auditor.
SUBCHAPTER I.  TEXTBOOKSSec. 51.451.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "College bookstore" means a bookstore that is:(A)  operated by an institution of higher education; or(B)  in a contractual relationship or otherwise affiliated with an institution of higher education.(2)  "Custom textbook" means a textbook that is compiled by a publisher at the direction of a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education and that may include items such as selections from original instructor materials, previously copyrighted publisher materials, copyrighted third-party works, or elements unique to a specific institution.(3)  "Faculty member" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.917.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(4-a)  "Open educational resource" means a teaching, learning, or research resource that is in the public domain or has been released under an intellectual property license that permits the free use, adaptation, and redistribution of the resource by any person.  The term may include full course curricula, course materials, modules, textbooks, media, assessments, software, and any other tools, materials, or techniques, whether digital or otherwise, used to support access to knowledge.(4-b)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Supplemental material," with respect to a textbook, means instructional material developed to accompany the textbook, including printed materials, computer disks, website access, and electronically distributed materials, other than material that is part of an integrated textbook.(6)  "Textbook" means a book published primarily for instruction in connection with a particular course or courses offered to postsecondary students by an institution of higher education.  The term includes any edition of a textbook or set of textbooks and any item considered supplemental specifically to the textbook, regardless of whether the textbook and supplemental item are sold together or separately.(7)  "Textbook bundle" means a textbook that is combined with other instructional material, such as another textbook or additional printed material, a computer disk, website access, or electronically distributed material, and that is packaged or otherwise offered for sale with that instructional material at a single price.  The term does not include a textbook that is combined with other instructional material if that material in its entirety is:(A)  required to be offered for sale with or as part of the textbook, according to a third-party contractual agreement; or(B)  interrelated with the content of the textbook to such a degree that any separation of the material from the textbook would render the textbook unusable for its intended purpose.
Sec. 51.452.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED TEXTBOOKS.  (a)  Each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  for each semester or academic term, compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule a list of the required and recommended textbooks that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each textbook:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any; and(F)  whether the textbook is an open educational resource;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (b), at the time required by Subsection (c)(2):(A)  publish the textbook list with the course schedule on the institution's Internet website and with any course schedule the institution provides in hard copy format to the students of the institution; and(B)  make that information available to college bookstores and other bookstores that generally serve the students of the institution; and(4)  except as provided by Subsection (b), as soon as practicable after the information becomes available disseminate as required by Subdivision (3) specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and textbook list.(b)  A private or independent institution of higher education is not required to publish a textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(3)(A) or any revisions to that textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(4) if a college bookstore publishes that list and any revisions to that list on the bookstore's Internet website on behalf of the institution at the appropriate times required by this section.(c)  To allow for timely placement of textbook orders by students, each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and textbook list required by Subsection (a); and(2)  disseminate the institution's course schedule and textbook list as required by Subsection (a)(3) as soon as practicable after the institution has compiled the schedule and list but not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for the semester or other academic term for which the schedule and list are compiled.(d)  If a private or independent institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a textbook list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.
Sec. 51.4521.  PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED COURSE MATERIALS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Course material" means a textbook, supplemental material, or open educational resource.(2)  "Institution of higher education," notwithstanding Section 51.451, has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for each semester or academic term, each institution of higher education shall:(1)  compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule, or provide in a prominent location in the schedule a link to an Internet website, such as the Internet website of a college bookstore, that contains, a list of the required and recommended course materials that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each course material, as applicable:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher or provider;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any;(F)  whether the course material is an open educational resource; and(G)  any associated fee or charge, such as a technology cost, library use cost, or printing or publication fee;(3)  in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to:(A)  the full amount of any fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution, including a statement regarding whether the fee or charge is included in the cost of tuition;(B)  if a course material is in a primarily electronic format, the terms under which the publisher or provider collects and uses student data obtained through a student's use of the course material; and(C)  any provision that allows the student to opt out of a fee or charge described by Paragraph (A); and(4)  make information regarding the cost of course materials on the course materials list under Subdivision (2) available to college bookstores and other providers of course materials that serve the students of the institution.(c)  As soon as practicable after the information becomes available, each institution of higher education shall make available specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and course materials list.(d)  An institution of higher education shall itemize a fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution separately from any other fees or charges assessed for a course or course section in the institution's billing to the student.  This subsection may not be construed to prohibit an institution of higher education from including the cost of course materials as part of the institution's tuition.(e)  Any agreement between an institution of higher education and an entity under which the institution agrees to assess or allows the entity to assess a fee or charge for course materials to students enrolled at the institution is public information under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  To allow for timely placement of course material orders by students, each institution of higher education shall establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and course materials list required by Subsection (b).(g)  If an institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a course materials list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.(h)  If an institution of higher education designates in the institution's course schedule certain courses or sections of courses as having low course material costs or a similar designation, the institution shall, in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to the criteria for that designation.(i)  This section may not be construed to affect any authority granted to a faculty member by an institution of higher education to select course materials for courses taught by the faculty member.
Sec. 51.454.  TEXTBOOK PUBLISHERS: AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO FACULTY CONCERNING TEXTBOOK PRICES, REVISIONS, AND COPYRIGHTS.  (a)  When a textbook publisher provides information regarding a textbook or supplemental material other than an open educational resource to a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education, the publisher shall also provide to the faculty member or other person written information that includes:(1)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material available to a college bookstore or other bookstore that generally serves the students of the institution and, if applicable, to the public;(2)  the copyright dates of the current and three preceding editions of the textbook;(3)  a description of any substantial content revisions made between the current edition of the textbook or supplemental material and the most recent preceding edition of the textbook or material, including the addition of new chapters, new material covering additional time periods, new themes, or new subject matter;(4)  information as to whether the textbook or supplemental material is available in other formats, such as a paperback or unbound version; and(5)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material in any alternative format available to a bookstore described by Subdivision (1) and, if applicable, to the public.(b)  A textbook publisher shall comply with this section with respect to a custom textbook only to the extent reasonably practicable.
SUBCHAPTER O. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICIESSec. 51.680.  REVIEW BY COMMISSIONER OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The commissioner of higher education, by December 31, 1987, shall review the intellectual property policies of institutions of higher education that were filed with the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, pursuant to Senate Concurrent Resolution 92 of the 69th Texas Legislature.  In this review, the commissioner shall determine, as a ministerial duty, without regard to the substance of the content thereof, whether the intellectual property policies address as a minimum standard the following matters:(1)  disclosure of scientific and technological developments, including inventions, discoveries, trade secrets, and computer software;(2)  institutional review of scientific and technological disclosures, including consideration of ownership and appropriate legal protection;(3)  guidelines for licensing scientific and technological developments;(4)  clear identification of ownership and licensing responsibilities for each class of intellectual property;(5)  royalty participation by inventors and the institution;  and(6)  equity and management participation on the part of the inventor or inventors in business entities that utilize technology created at the institution of higher education.(b)  No later than January 31, 1988, the commissioner of higher education shall inform institutions of higher education whether their intellectual property policies meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a). Thereafter, an institution of higher education may file or post on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public policies amended to overcome any failure to meet the standards.  The commissioner shall within a reasonable time after receiving an amended policy inform the submitting institution whether it meets the standards.(c)  It is a policy of the state that each institution of higher education shall at all times have a current copy of its intellectual property policies that meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) posted on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public.  The commissioner of higher education shall establish procedures for the monitoring of this policy of the state.(d)  Institutions of higher education not having an intellectual property policy meeting the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) of this section by August 31, 1988, shall not receive funds under any state-run competitive research or advanced technology funding programs.
SUBCHAPTER P. FUND FOR THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCESSec. 51.701.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.  The legislature finds that:(1)  strength in the manufacturing sector is critical to the United States' and Texas' international competitive position, as well as to the national security.  Manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier of any industrial sector, contributing to economic growth and personal wealth.  High technology manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier among manufacturing sectors;(2)  the health of the manufacturing sector is critical for economic growth in Texas.  Texas, as a primary producer of raw materials, finds itself positioned to benefit tremendously from improvement and development of its manufacturing capabilities, even while the Texas economy suffers the consequences of having depended too heavily on production of raw materials alone;  and(3)  manufacturing industry sales growth and productivity increases have been shown to move in direct relation to the performance of research and development by the industry.
SUBCHAPTER R. EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY CENTERSec. 51.751.  CREATION AND OPERATION.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Center is created as a consortium of universities.  Each public senior college or university in the state shall participate in the Educational Economic Policy Center at the request of the governor.  The center shall represent business, finance, public policy, education, and other appropriate disciplines.(b)  The center shall examine the efficiency of the public school system and the effectiveness of instructional methods and curricular programs and promote the use of successful methods and programs.  The center shall monitor and evaluate the implementation of the accountability system under Chapters 39 and 39A.(c)  The center may be funded by donations, grants, and legislative appropriations.  The office of the governor may receive grants and donations for the purposes of this subchapter.(d)  The center may assist the legislature with education policy studies related to the purposes of the center on approval of the governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker.  The center may participate in collaborative studies with foundations or organizations within or outside the state.
Sec. 51.752.  EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY COMMITTEE.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Committee is created as the primary policy-making body of the Educational Economic Policy Center.  The committee shall study the elements of a quality educational system to:(1)  improve the management and productivity of the public education system to meet the demands of the twenty-first century;(2)  provide greater accountability to the taxpayers of the state;  and(3)  improve the state's ability to compete in education and to compete economically with other states and nations.(b)  The committee is composed of nine members.  The governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives shall each appoint two members, only one of whom may be a board member or employee of a public school district, college, or university.  Those appointees shall include persons in the private sector who have an interest in improving public education.  In addition, the governor shall appoint three members who serve on the boards of regents representing the universities or systems participating in the center.(c)  Members of the committee serve two-year staggered terms.(d)  The governor shall appoint one member of the committee as the chairman.(e)  Members shall not receive salaries but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending meetings of the committee.(f)  State agencies shall cooperate with and assist the center at the committee's request.(g)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1203 , Sec. 21(1), eff. September 1, 2015.(h)  If the legislature fails to appropriate funds for the operation of the Educational Economic Policy Center, the Legislative Budget Board shall perform the duties of the committee under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.762.  COMMON ADMISSION APPLICATION FORMS.  (a)  The board, with the assistance of high school counselors and an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, public technical institutes, and private or independent institutions of higher education, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit freshman-level students:(1)  shall adopt by rule:(A)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to a general academic teaching institution;(B)  an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(C)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education; and(2)  may adopt by rule a printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution.(b)  The board, with the assistance of an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, and public technical institutes, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit undergraduate transfer students, may adopt by rule:(1)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to a general academic teaching institution;(2)  an electronic or printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to an institution of higher education that admits undergraduate transfer students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(3)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a transfer student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education.(b-1)  An electronic common admission application form adopted under this section must include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  In addition to information required to determine the residency status of the applicant and information relating to the use of the form at each institution, the board shall include on each application form adopted under this section information that the board considers appropriate.(d)  The board shall attempt to ensure as much uniformity in the forms adopted under this section as possible, regardless of the category of institution for which the forms are adopted.(e)  The board shall publicize in both electronic and printed formats the availability of a form adopted under this section.(f)  The board shall ensure that copies of the freshman common admission application forms and information for the use of the forms are available in electronic format for distribution to the appropriate personnel at each public high school in this state.(g)  The board shall make a form adopted under this section available to the public electronically by the Internet or other commonly used telecommunications media and may contract with an institution of higher education or other provider to satisfy this requirement.(h)  An applicant may file, and each institution of higher education shall accept, an application for admission as an entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student that uses the appropriate form adopted under this section.  The form used to apply to a general academic teaching institution may be filed in either electronic or printed format.  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application using a form adopted under this section.(i)  In addition to other information considered appropriate by the board, the board by rule shall require each institution to collect information regarding gender, ethnicity, and date of birth as part of the application process and report this information to the board.(j)  In adopting a form under this section, the board shall ensure that an applicant may indicate on the form the applicant's consent to an institution of higher education to which the applicant submits an application for admission to a particular degree program using the form to, if the institution denies the applicant admission to that degree program, provide the applicant's application to other institutions of higher education that offer the degree program.
Sec. 51.763.  ELECTRONIC ADMISSION APPLICATION FORM FOR UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  The governing board of a university system shall adopt a common admission application form consistent with this subchapter to be used by any person seeking freshman or undergraduate transfer admission to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system.(b)  The form must:(1)  allow each applicant to:(A)  apply electronically to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system; and(B)  indicate preferences for admission between those institutions; and(2)  include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  A general academic teaching institution is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application under this section.
SUBCHAPTER T. CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTSSec. 51.776.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Architect" means an individual registered as an architect under Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(2)  "Board" means the governing body of an institution.(3)  "Contractor" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for constructing, rehabilitating, altering, or repairing all or part of the facility at the contracted price.(4)  "Engineer" means an individual licensed as an engineer under Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.(5)  "Facility" means real property, including buildings and associated structures and improved or unimproved land.(6)  "Fee" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means the payment a construction manager receives for its overhead and profit in performing its services.(7)  "General conditions" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means on-site management, administrative personnel, insurance, bonds, equipment, utilities, and incidental work, including minor field labor and materials.(8)  "Institution" means an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, other than a public junior college.
Sec. 51.7761.  AGREEMENT WITH COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ORGANIZATION.  (a) In this section, "public work contract" means a contract for constructing, altering, or repairing a public building or carrying out or completing any public work.(b)  An institution awarding a public work contract funded with state money, including the issuance of debt guaranteed by this state, may not:(1)  prohibit, require, discourage, or encourage a person bidding on the public work contract, including a contractor or subcontractor, from entering into or adhering to an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  discriminate against a person  described by Subdivision (1) based on the person's involvement in the agreement, including the person's:(A)  status or lack of status as a party to the agreement; or(B)  willingness or refusal to enter into the agreement.(c)  This section may not be construed to:(1)  prohibit activity protected by the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.), including entering into an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  permit conduct prohibited under the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.).
Sec. 51.780.  DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Design-build contract" means a single contract with a design-build firm for the design and construction of a facility.(2)  "Design-build firm" means a partnership, corporation, or other legal entity or team that includes an engineer or architect and builder qualified to engage in building construction in Texas.(3)  "Design criteria package" means a set of documents that provides sufficient information to permit a design-build firm to prepare a response to an institution's request for qualifications and any additional information requested, including criteria for selection. The design criteria package must specify criteria the institution considers necessary to describe the project and may include, as appropriate, the legal description of the site, survey information concerning the site, interior space requirements, special material requirements, material quality standards, conceptual criteria for the project, special equipment requirements, cost or budget estimates, time schedules, quality assurance and quality control requirements, site development requirements, applicable codes and ordinances, provisions for utilities, parking requirements, or any other requirement, as applicable.(b)  An institution may use the design-build method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a design-build firm, the contracting institution and the design-build firm shall follow the procedures provided by Subsections (c)-(k).(c)  The board may designate an engineer or architect independent of the design-build firm to act as its representative for the duration of the work on the facility.  If the board's engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, any engineer or architect designated shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(d)  The institution shall prepare a request for qualifications that includes general information on the project site, project scope, budget, special systems, selection criteria, and other information that may assist potential design-build firms in submitting proposals for the project.  The institution shall also prepare the design criteria package that includes more detailed information on the project.  If the preparation of the design criteria package requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, those services shall be provided in accordance with the applicable law.(e)  The board or its representative shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board or its representative shall evaluate statements of qualifications and select a design-build firm in two phases:(1)  In phase one, the board or its representative shall prepare a request for qualifications and evaluate each offeror's experience, technical competence, and capability to perform, the past performance of the offeror's team and members of the team, and other appropriate factors submitted by the team or firm in response to the request for qualifications, except that cost-related or price-related evaluation factors are not permitted.  Each offeror must certify to the board that each engineer or architect that is a member of its team was selected based on demonstrated competence and qualifications in the manner provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The board or its representative shall qualify a maximum of five offerors to submit additional information and, if the board or its representative chooses, to interview for final selection.(2)  In phase two, the board or its representative shall evaluate the information submitted by the offerors on the basis of the selection criteria stated in the request for qualifications and the results of any interview.  The board or its representative may request additional information regarding demonstrated competence and qualifications, considerations of the safety and long-term durability of the project, the feasibility of implementing the project as proposed, the ability of the offeror to meet schedules, costing methodology, or other factors as appropriate.  The board or its representative may not require offerors to submit detailed engineering or architectural designs as part of the proposal.  The board or its representative shall rank each proposal submitted on the basis of the criteria specified in the request for qualifications.  The board or its representative shall select the design-build firm that submits the proposal offering the best value for the institution on the basis of the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluations.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the institution shall, formally and in writing, end all negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(g)  Following selection of a design-build firm under Subsection (f), that firm's engineers or architects shall complete the design, submitting all design elements for review and determination of scope compliance by the institution's engineer or architect before or concurrently with construction.(h)  An engineer shall have responsibility for compliance with the engineering design requirements and all other applicable requirements of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.  An architect shall have responsibility for compliance with the requirements of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(i)  The institution shall provide or contract for, independently of the design-build firm, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The institution shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(j)  The design-build firm shall supply a signed and sealed set of construction documents for the project to the institution at the conclusion of construction.(k)  A payment or performance bond is not required for, and may not provide coverage for, the portion of a design-build contract under this section that includes design services only.  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time a design-build contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution shall each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as specified in the design criteria package.  The design-build firm shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the design-build firm executes the contract unless the design-build firm furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the design-build firm will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.781.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AGENT.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-agent method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-agent, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-agent is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that provides consultation to the institution regarding construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of the facility.  An institution using the construction manager-agent method may, under the contract between the institution and the construction manager-agent, require the construction manager-agent to provide administrative personnel, equipment necessary to perform duties under this section, and on-site management and other services specified in the contract.  A construction manager-agent represents the institution in a fiduciary capacity.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-agent, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer or architect may not serve, alone or in combination with another person, as the construction manager-agent unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-agent under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  A board shall select a construction manager-agent on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in the same manner as provided for the selection of engineers or architects under Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  A board using the construction manager-agent method shall procure, in accordance with applicable law and in any manner authorized by this chapter, a general contractor, trade contractors, or subcontractors who will serve as the prime contractor for their specific portion of the work.(f)  The board or the construction manager-agent shall procure in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, all of the testing of construction materials engineering, the inspection services, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.
Sec. 51.782.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AT-RISK.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-at-risk method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-at-risk, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-at-risk is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility at the contracted price as a general contractor and provides consultation to the institution regarding construction during and after the design of the facility.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-at-risk, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer, architect, or construction manager-agent for a project may not serve, alone or in combination with another, as the construction manager-at-risk unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-at-risk under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the construction manager-at-risk, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  The board shall select the construction manager-at-risk in either a one-step or two-step process.  The board shall prepare a request for proposals, in the case of a one-step process, or a request for qualifications, in the case of a two-step process, that includes general information on the project site, project scope, schedule, selection criteria, estimated budget, and the time and place for receipt of proposals or qualifications, as applicable, a statement as to whether the selection process is a one-step or two-step process, and other information that may assist the board in its selection of a construction manager-at-risk.  The board shall state the selection criteria in the request for proposals or qualifications, as applicable.  The selection criteria may include the offeror's experience, past performance, safety record, proposed personnel and methodology, and other appropriate factors that demonstrate the capability of the construction manager-at-risk.  If a one-step process is used, the board may request, as part of the offeror's proposal, proposed fees and prices for fulfilling the general conditions.  If a two-step process is used, the board may not request fees or prices in step one.  In step two, the board may request that five or fewer offerors, selected solely on the basis of qualifications, provide additional information, including the construction manager-at-risk's proposed fee and its price for fulfilling the general conditions.(f)  The board shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(g)  At each step, the board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors.  At the appropriate step, the board shall also read aloud the fees and prices, if any, stated in each proposal as the proposal is opened.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals, the board or its representative shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the criteria set forth in the request for proposals.(h)  The board or its representative shall select the offeror that submits the proposal that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the board or its representative shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(i)  A construction manager-at-risk shall publicly advertise, in the manner prescribed by the institution, and receive bids or proposals from trade contractors or subcontractors for the performance of all major elements of the work other than general conditions work.  A construction manager-at-risk may seek to perform major elements of the work itself if the construction manager-at-risk submits its bid or proposal for that work in the same manner as all other trade contractors or subcontractors and if the board determines that the construction manager-at-risk's bid or proposal provides the best value for the institution.  If no satisfactory bid or proposal for a major element of the work is received in the time allowed, the board may negotiate directly with the construction manager-at-risk for performance of that work.  The board may negotiate directly with the manager-at-risk for the performance of minor elements of the work that are not included in major work packages.(j)  The construction manager-at-risk and the board or its representative shall review all trade contractor or subcontractor bids or proposals in a manner that does not disclose the contents of the bid or proposal during the selection process to a person not employed by the construction manager-at-risk, engineer, architect, or institution.  All bids or proposals shall be made public after the award of the contract or within seven days after the date of final selection of bids and proposals, whichever is later.(k)  If the construction manager-at-risk reviews, evaluates, and recommends to the board a bid or proposal from a trade contractor or subcontractor but the board requires another bid or proposal to be accepted, the institution shall compensate the construction manager-at-risk by a change in price, time, or guaranteed maximum cost for any additional cost and risk that the construction manager-at-risk may incur because of the board's requirement that another bid or proposal be accepted.(l)  If a selected trade contractor or subcontractor defaults in the performance of its work or fails to execute a subcontract after being selected in accordance with this section, the construction manager-at-risk may, without advertising, itself fulfill the contract requirements or select a replacement trade contractor or subcontractor to fulfill the contract requirements.(m)  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time the contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution must each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as set forth in the request for qualifications.  The construction manager shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the construction manager executes the contract unless the construction manager furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the construction manager will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.783.  SELECTING CONTRACTOR FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES THROUGH COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS.  (a)  In selecting a contractor for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair services for a facility through competitive sealed proposals, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  The board shall select or designate an engineer or architect to prepare construction documents for the project.  The selected or designated engineer or architect has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.(c)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the contractor, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, and shall identify them in the request for proposals.(d)  The board shall prepare a request for competitive sealed proposals that includes construction documents, selection criteria, estimated budget, project scope, schedule, and other information that contractors may require to respond to the request.  The board shall state in the request for proposals the selection criteria that will be used in selecting the successful offeror.(e)  The board shall publish notice of the request for proposals in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors and, if any are required to be stated, all prices stated in each proposal.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals the board shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the published selection criteria.(g)  The board shall select the offeror that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  The board and its engineer or architect may discuss with the selected offeror options for a scope or time modification and any price change associated with the modification. If the board is unable to reach a contract with the selected offeror, the board shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or all proposals are rejected.(h)  In determining best value for the institution, the board is not restricted to considering price alone but may consider any other factor stated in the selection criteria.
Sec. 51.784.  JOB ORDER CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.  (a)  An institution may award job order contracts for the minor construction, repair, rehabilitation, or alteration of a facility if the work is of a recurring nature but the delivery times are indefinite and indefinite quantities and orders are awarded substantially on the basis of predescribed and prepriced tasks.(b)  The institution may establish contractual unit prices for a job order contract by:(1)  specifying one or more published construction unit price books and the applicable divisions or line items;  or(2)  providing a list of work items and requiring the offerors to bid or propose one or more coefficients or multipliers to be applied to the price book or work items as the price proposal.(c)  The board shall advertise for, receive, and publicly open sealed proposals for job order contracts.(d)  The board may require offerors to submit additional information besides rates, including experience, past performance, and proposed personnel and methodology.(e)  The board may award job order contracts to one or more job order contractors in connection with each solicitation of bids or proposals.(f)  An order for a job or project under the job order contract must be signed by the board's representative and the contractor.  The order may be a fixed price, lump-sum contract based substantially on contractual unit pricing applied to estimated quantities or may be a unit price order based on the quantities and line items delivered.(g)  The contractor shall provide payment and performance bonds, if required by law, based on the amount or estimated amount of any order.(h)  The base term of a job order contract is for the period and with any renewal options that the institution sets forth in the request for proposals.  If the institution fails to advertise that term, the base term may not exceed two years and is not renewable without further advertisement and solicitation of proposals.(i)  If a job order contract or an order issued under the contract requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, the board shall select or designate an architect or engineer to prepare the construction documents for the facility.  If the architect or engineer is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the architect or engineer on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.
Sec. 51.803.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION:  ALL INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  Subject to Subsection (a-1), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated with a grade point average in the top 10 percent of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the applicant is applying for admission and:(1)  the applicant:(A)  graduated from a public or private high school in this state accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; or(B)  completed a nontraditional secondary education as defined by Section 51.9241;(2)  the applicant:(A)  successfully completed:(i)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(ii)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(B)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent; and(3)  if the applicant graduated from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense, the applicant is a Texas resident under Section 54.052 or is entitled to pay tuition fees at the rate provided for Texas residents under Section 54.241(d) for the term or semester to which admitted.(a-1)  Beginning with admissions for the 2011-2012 academic year, The University of Texas at Austin is not required to offer admission to applicants who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in excess of the number required to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students in an academic year.  If the number of applicants who qualify for automatic admission to The University of Texas at Austin under Subsection (a) for an academic year exceeds 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that academic year, the university may elect to offer admission to those applicants as provided by this subsection and not as otherwise required by Subsection (a).  If the university elects to offer admission under this subsection, the university shall offer admission to those applicants by percentile rank according to high school graduating class standing based on grade point average, beginning with the top percentile rank, until the applicants qualified under Subsection (a) have been offered admission in the number estimated in good faith by the university as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students, except that the university must offer admission to all applicants with the same percentile rank.  After the applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) have been offered admission under this subsection in the number estimated in good faith as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the designated enrollment capacity described by this subsection, the university shall consider any remaining applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in the same manner as other applicants for admission as first-time undergraduate students in accordance with Section 51.805.(a-2)  If the number of applicants who apply to a general academic teaching institution during the current academic year for admission in the next academic year and who qualify for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Subsection (a) exceeds 75 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that next academic year and the institution plans to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year, the institution shall, in the manner prescribed by the Texas Education Agency and not later than September 15, provide to each school district, for dissemination of the information to high school junior-level students and their parents, notice of which percentile ranks of high school senior-level students who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) are anticipated by the institution to be offered admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year.(a-3)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 776 , Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2015.(a-4)  If The University of Texas at Austin elects to offer admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year, the university must continue its practice of not considering an applicant's legacy status as a factor in the university's decisions relating to admissions for that academic year.(a-5)  A general academic teaching institution that offers admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) shall require that a student admitted under that subsection complete a designated portion of not less than six semester credit hours of the student's coursework during evening hours or other low-demand hours as necessary to ensure the efficient use of the institution's available classrooms.(a-6)  Not later than December 31 of each academic year in which The University of Texas at Austin offers admission under Subsection (a-1), the university shall deliver a written report to the governor, the lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives regarding the university's progress in each of the following matters:(1)  increasing geographic diversity of the entering freshman class;(2)  counseling and outreach efforts aimed at students qualified for automatic admission under this section;(3)  recruiting Texas residents who graduate from other institutions of higher education to the university's graduate and professional degree programs;(4)  recruiting students who are members of underrepresented demographic segments of the state's population; and(5)  assessing and improving the university's regional recruitment centers.(b)  An applicant who does not satisfy the curriculum requirements prescribed by Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii) is considered to have satisfied those requirements if the student completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student but was unable to complete the remainder of the curriculum solely because courses necessary to complete the remainder were unavailable to the student at the appropriate times in the student's high school career as a result of course scheduling, lack of enrollment capacity, or another cause not within the student's control.(c)  To qualify for admission under this section, an applicant must:(1)  submit an application before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution; and(2)  provide a high school transcript or diploma that satisfies the requirements of Subsection (d).(d)  For purposes of Subsection (c)(2), a student's official transcript or diploma must, not later than the end of the student's junior year, indicate:(1)  whether the student has satisfied or is on schedule to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii), as applicable; or(2)  if Subsection (b) applies to the student, whether the student has completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student.(d-1)  In addition to admissions required under Subsection (a), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated as the valedictorian of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the student is applying for admission and satisfies the requirements of Subsections (a)(1) through (3).  Subsection (b) applies to an applicant for admission under this subsection.  An applicant admitted under this subsection is considered automatically admitted for purposes of Subsection (a), (a-1), or (a-2), as applicable.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant:(1)  is the child of a public servant listed in Section 615.003, Government Code, who was killed or sustained a fatal injury in the line of duty; and(2)  meets the minimum requirements, if any, established for purposes of this subsection by the governing board of the institution for high school or prior college-level grade point average and performance on standardized tests.(f)  After admitting an applicant under this section, the institution shall review the applicant's record and any other factor the institution considers appropriate to determine whether the applicant may require additional preparation for college-level work or would benefit from inclusion in a retention program.  The institution may require a student so identified to enroll during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section to participate in appropriate enrichment courses and orientation programs.  This section does not prohibit a student who is not determined to need additional preparation for college-level work from enrolling, if the student chooses, during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board by rule shall develop and implement a program to increase and enhance the efforts of general academic teaching institutions in conducting outreach to academically high-performing high school seniors in this state who are likely to be eligible for automatic admission under Subsection (a) to provide to those students information and counseling regarding the operation of this section and other opportunities, including financial assistance, available to those students for success at public institutions of higher education in this state.  Under the program, the coordinating board, after gathering information and recommendations from available sources and examining current outreach practices by institutions in this state and in other states, shall prescribe best practices guidelines and standards to be used by general academic teaching institutions in conducting the student outreach described by this subsection.(h)  An institution that admits under this section an applicant qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) or (d-1) may admit the applicant for either the fall semester of the academic year for which the applicant applies or for the summer session preceding that fall semester, as determined by the institution.(i)  If a general academic teaching institution denies admission to an applicant for an academic year, in any letter or other communication the institution provides to the applicant notifying the applicant of that denial, the institution may not reference the provisions of this section, including using a description of a provision of this section such as the top 10 percent automatic admissions law, as a reason the institution is unable to offer admission to the applicant unless the number of applicants for admission to the institution for that academic year who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) is sufficient to fill 100 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students.(j)  A general academic teaching institution that elects to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year may not offer admission to first-time undergraduate students who are not residents of this state for that academic year in excess of the number required to fill 10 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time undergraduate students for that academic year.(k)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 365 (S.B. 2538), Sec. 1, eff. June 2, 2023.(l)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall publish an annual report on the impact of Subsection (a-1) on the state's goal of closing college access and achievement gaps under "Closing the Gaps," the state's master plan for higher education, with respect to students of an institution that offers admission under that subsection, disaggregated by race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region and by whether the high school from which the student graduated was a small school, as defined by the commissioner of education, or a public high school that is ranked among the lowest 20 percent of public high schools according to the percentage of each high school's graduates who enroll in a four-year institution, including a general academic teaching institution, in one of the two academic years following the year of the applicant's high school graduation.  On request, a general academic teaching institution that offers admission under Subsection (a-1) shall provide the board with any information the board considers necessary for the completion of the report required by this subsection.(m)  In determining the eligibility for admission under this section of an applicant with a nontraditional secondary education, as defined by Section 51.9241, that does not include a high school graduating class ranking, a general academic teaching institution shall calculate the applicant's class rank in the manner provided by Section 51.9241(d).
Sec. 51.8035.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION OF APPLICANTS COMPLETING CORE CURRICULUM AT ANOTHER INSTITUTION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Core curriculum" means the core curriculum adopted by an institution of higher education under Section 61.822.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as a transfer undergraduate student who:(1)  graduated from high school not earlier than the fourth school year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission to the institution as a transfer student and:(A)  qualified for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Section 51.803 at the time of graduation; or(B)  was previously offered admission under this subchapter to the institution to which the applicant seeks admission as a transfer student;(2)  first enrolled in a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education not earlier than the third academic year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission;(3)  completed the core curriculum at a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale or the equivalent; and(4)  submits a completed application for admission as a transfer student before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution.(c)  For purposes of this section, transfer semester credit hours from a different institution of higher education and semester credit hours earned by examination shall be included in determining whether the person completed the core curriculum at an institution of higher education.(d)  It is the responsibility of the applicant for admission under this section to:(1)  expressly and clearly claim in the application entitlement to admission under this section; and(2)  timely provide to the general academic teaching institution the documentation required by the institution to determine the student's entitlement to admission under this section.
Sec. 51.8045.  GRADUATES OF CERTAIN SPECIAL HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS.  (a)  For purposes of Sections 51.803 and 51.804 only, the governing body of a school district may treat a high school magnet program, academy, or other special program conducted by the school district at a high school attended by high school students who are not students of the special program as an independent high school with its own graduating class separate from the graduating class of other students attending the high school if:(1)  the special program was in operation in the 2000-2001 school year;(2)  the students of the special program are recruited, selected, or admitted from among the students residing in the attendance zones of not fewer than 10 regular high schools in the district, including the high school at which the special program is conducted;(3)  the students of the special program are selected or admitted independently of and identified as a student body separate from the other students of the high school;(4)  the students of the special program constitute not less than 35 percent of the total number of students in the graduating class at the high school at which the special program is conducted;(5)  the students of the special program have a curriculum different from that of the other students of the high school, even if students of the special program and other students of the high school attend some of the same classes;  and(6)  a student graduating from the special program receives a high school diploma that includes a reference to the special program in describing the high school from which the student graduated.(b)  This section does not apply to the manner in which the members of a graduating class of the high school as a whole, including graduates of the special program, are ranked by grade point average for purposes other than admissions under Sections 51.803 and 51.804.
Sec. 51.805.  OTHER ADMISSIONS.  (a)  A graduating student who does not qualify for admission under Section 51.803 or 51.804 may apply to any general academic teaching institution if the student:(1)  successfully completed:(A)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the foundation high school program; or(B)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the foundation high school program; or(2)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent.(b)  The general academic teaching institution, after admitting students under Sections 51.803 and 51.804, shall admit other applicants for admission as undergraduate students.  It is the intent of the legislature that all institutions of higher education pursue academic excellence by considering students' academic achievements in decisions related to admissions.  Because of changing demographic trends, diversity, and population increases in the state, each general academic teaching institution shall also consider all of, any of, or a combination of the following socioeconomic indicators or factors in making first-time freshman admissions decisions:(1)  the applicant's academic record;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant, including the percentage by which the applicant's family is above or below any recognized measure of poverty, the applicant's household income, and the applicant's parents' level of education;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an institution of higher education;(4)  whether the applicant has bilingual proficiency;(5)  the financial status of the applicant's school district;(6)  the performance level of the applicant's school as determined by the school accountability criteria used by the Texas Education Agency;(7)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending school, including whether the applicant has been employed, whether the applicant has helped to raise children, or other similar factors;(8)  the applicant's region of residence;(9)  whether the applicant is a resident of a rural or urban area or a resident of a central city or suburban area in the state;(10)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests;(11)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests in comparison with that of other students from similar socioeconomic backgrounds;(12)  whether the applicant attended any school while the school was under a court-ordered desegregation plan;(13)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(14)  the applicant's extracurricular activities;(15)  the applicant's commitment to a particular field of study;(16)  the applicant's personal interview;(17)  the applicant's admission to a comparable accredited out-of-state institution;  and(18)  any other consideration the institution considers necessary to accomplish the institution's stated mission.(c)  A general academic teaching institution may review other factors in making an admissions decision.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admission are first considered under this section, each general academic teaching institution shall publish in the institution's catalog a description of the factors considered by the institution in making admission decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  This section does not apply to an institution that has an open enrollment policy, except that a student may apply to a general academic teaching institution that has an open enrollment policy only if the student satisfies the requirements described by Subsection (a).(f)  This section does not apply to Lamar State College--Orange or Lamar State College--Port Arthur as long as those institutions operate as two-year lower-division institutions of higher education.
Sec. 51.808.  APPLICATION OF ADMISSION CRITERIA TO OTHER PROGRAMS.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit that offers admissions to undergraduate transfer students or admissions to a graduate, postgraduate, or professional program shall adopt a written admission policy applicable to those programs.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution shall adopt a written admission policy to promote the admission of undergraduate transfer students to the institution.  The policy must provide for outreach and recruiting efforts directed at junior colleges and other lower-division institutions of higher education and may include incentives to encourage transfer applications and to retain and promote transfer students.(c)  A policy adopted under this section shall be published in the institution's or unit's catalog and made available to the public.
Sec. 51.810.  HIGHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE PLANS.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The institution of higher education in closest geographic proximity to a public high school in this state identified by the coordinating board for purposes of this section as substantially below the state average in the number of graduates who enroll in higher education institutions shall enter into an agreement with that high school to develop a plan to increase the number of students from that high school enrolling in higher education institutions.  Under the plan, the institution shall:(1)  collaborate with the high school to:(A)  provide to prospective students information related to enrollment in an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, including admissions, testing, and financial aid information;(B)  assist those prospective students in completing applications and testing related to enrollment in those institutions, including admissions and financial aid applications, and fulfilling testing requirements; and(C)  target efforts to increase the number of Hispanic students and African American male students enrolled in higher education institutions; and(2)  actively engage with local school districts to provide access to rigorous, high-quality dual credit opportunities for qualified high school students as needed.(c)  An institution of higher education must include a plan developed by the institution under this section and the results of that plan in its annual report to the coordinating board under Section 51.4032.(d)  The coordinating board shall include in its annual "Closing the Gaps" higher education plan progress report a summary of the results of the plans developed and administered under this section.(e)  The coordinating board may adopt rules to implement this section.
SUBCHAPTER V. JOINT ADMISSION MEDICAL PROGRAMSec. 51.821.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Council" means the Joint Admission Medical Program Council established under this subchapter.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" means a four-year general academic teaching institution as defined by Section 61.003. (3)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" means an institution as defined by Section 61.003(15) that grants baccalaureate degrees and offers a program in premedical education.(4)  "Participating medical school" means each of the following entities:(A)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston;(B)  the medical school at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;(C)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio;(D)  the medical school at The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston;(E)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at Lubbock;(F)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El Paso;(G)  the Baylor College of Medicine;(H)  the college of osteopathic medicine at the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth;(I)  the medical school at The Texas A&M University System Health Science Center;(J)  the medical school at The University of Texas at Austin;(K)  the medical school at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley;(L)  the medical school at the University of Houston;(M)  the college of osteopathic medicine at Sam Houston State University; and(N)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler.(5)  "Participating student" means an eligible undergraduate student who is admitted to the program and who maintains eligibility for continued participation in the program.  The term does not include a program alternate who participates in mentoring activities and receives other related counseling services under the program.(6)  "Program" means the Joint Admission Medical Program established under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.824.  COUNCIL DUTIES.  (a)  The council shall:(1)  recruit eligible undergraduate students for admission to the program;(2)  establish an application process for admitting eligible undergraduate students to the program;(3)  evaluate applications for admission to the program according to the procedures for selecting participating students under Subsection (b) and for selecting program alternates under Section 51.8245;(4)  monitor the implementation of the program;(5)  assist in developing services to support and encourage the pursuit of a medical education by participating students and program alternates;(6)  establish a process for participating students to:(A)  be matched to an internship program as described by Subsection (c);(B)  be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Subsection (d);(C)  apply for admission to participating medical schools;(D)  be matched to a participating medical school as described by Subsection (e); and(E)  enroll in that school;(7)  award to participating students undergraduate scholarships and summer stipends, including a summer stipend for a student who is required to participate in an internship program in the summer immediately following the student's senior year;(8)  award graduate scholarships to participating students;(9)  enter into an agreement with each student admitted to the program, each program alternate, each participating medical school, and each general academic teaching institution or private or independent institution of higher education as required by this subchapter; and(10)  take any other action necessary to implement the program.(b)  From each general academic teaching institution, the council annually shall select for admission to the program two eligible undergraduate students who are enrolled as sophomores at that institution.  From each private or independent institution of higher education, the council annually shall select for admission to the program one eligible undergraduate student who is enrolled as a sophomore at that institution.  The council shall allocate the remaining program openings to participating institutions as the council determines to be appropriate.  If there are insufficient program openings to accommodate two students from each general academic teaching institution and one student from each private or independent institution of higher education, as appropriate to achieve the purpose of this subchapter the council shall select for admission to the program eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled in the participating institutions, with not more than 15 percent of the total program openings for any year to be allocated to eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled at private or independent institutions of higher education.(c)  The council shall match each participating student with appropriate internship programs offered by participating medical schools during the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years.  A participating medical school to which a participating student is matched under Subsection (e) may require the student to participate in an internship program offered by the medical school during the summer immediately following the student's senior year.(d)  The council shall match each participating student and each program alternate with any appropriate undergraduate mentoring program required of the student or alternate by the council.(e)  During a participating student's senior year, the council shall match the student with an appropriate participating medical school as necessary to fill the percentage of enrollment capacity set aside by each medical school under the program.  To the extent possible, the council shall accommodate the preferences of participating students regarding medical school placement.  A participating medical school may not make an offer of admission to a participating student before the student is matched by the council to a medical school as described by this subsection.
Sec. 51.8245.  PROGRAM ALTERNATES.  (a)  The council shall establish procedures by which the council selects from the annual pool of applicants for the program an appropriate number of eligible undergraduate students to serve as program alternates until the beginning of their senior year.  The council shall rank program alternates according to their qualifications for the program and, immediately on the termination of the participation of a student previously admitted to the program, shall select the highest ranking program alternate to be a participating student under the program.  The council may not select a program alternate to be a participating student after the first day of the fall semester of the alternate's senior year.(b)  The council shall establish procedures for program alternates to be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Section 51.824(d).  A program alternate selected under this section is limited to participating in mentoring activities and receiving other related counseling services under the program and must sign an agreement to that effect.(c)  The council shall adopt criteria for program alternates to maintain their eligibility as program alternates.
Sec. 51.826.  ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION TO PROGRAM.(a)  To be eligible for admission to the program or for selection as a program alternate, an undergraduate student must:(1)   be enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education at the time of application to the program;(2)  be a Texas resident for purposes of tuition under Subchapter B, Chapter 54;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (c), successfully complete at least 27 semester credit hours during the student's freshman year;(4)  apply for admission to the program not later than a date, as designated by the council, that occurs during the fall semester of the student's sophomore year at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education; and(5)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  minimum high school and undergraduate grade point averages;(B)  financial need and any other indication of economic disadvantage; and(C)  any other matter the council considers appropriate.(b)  For purposes of Subsection (a)(3), a student is not a Texas resident as described by that subdivision solely because the student is eligible to pay tuition at the resident tuition rate.(c)  The council shall adopt rules to admit to the program or to select as a program alternate an otherwise eligible undergraduate student who, for good cause, has not successfully completed the number of semester credit hours required under Subsection (a)(4).  The council may not admit to the program or select as a program alternate an undergraduate student who has successfully completed fewer than 18 semester credit hours.
Sec. 51.8265.  PREADMISSION MENTORING AND ASSISTANCE.  (a)  In order to maximize a student's potential for success in the program, the council shall identify students who may be eligible to participate in the program not later than the beginning of the first fall semester following the student's graduation from high school.(b)  If the student is enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education, an identified student who expresses an interest in participating in the program is entitled to the following assistance during the student's freshman year:(1)  regular meetings with a program faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to monitor the student's academic progress and advise the student in academic course work and career choices; and(2)  tutoring in courses as necessary, to be paid with program funds.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 826, Sec. 3(2), eff. June 19, 2009.
Sec. 51.827.  ELIGIBILITY TO CONTINUE PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM.  (a)  To be eligible to continue participation in the program, an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program must:(1)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  courses taken and minimum grade point average for those courses during enrollment at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  progress in those courses;(C)  achievement of an acceptable score on the Medical College Admission Test or any equivalent examination taken as a precondition for enrollment in or admission to a participating medical school; and(D)  any other matter the council considers appropriate;(2)  participate in:(A)  internship programs described by Section 51.824(c) in:(i)  the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years; and(ii)  if required, the summer immediately following the student's senior year; and(B)  any undergraduate or graduate mentoring program required by the council; and(3)  exhibit intelligence, integrity, and personal and emotional characteristics that are considered necessary for the student to become an effective physician.(b)  If an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) without good cause as determined by the council, the council may terminate that student's participation in the program at the end of the semester during which the student failed to meet the requirements of that subsection.  A student's participation in the program is automatically terminated if the student fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) for two consecutive semesters without good cause.
Sec. 51.829.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PARTICIPATING MEDICAL SCHOOL.  (a)  Each participating medical school must enter into an agreement with the council under which the medical school agrees to:(1)  select a faculty member employed by the medical school to serve on the council;(2)  commit faculty and administrative resources to the program;(3)  set aside for participating students at least 10 percent of the medical school's enrollment capacity for each entering class, except as provided by Subsection (b);(4)  admit participating students who are matched to the medical school under the program;(5)  provide internship programs for participating students who have been matched to or are required to participate in those programs as described by Section 51.824(c) and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary;(6)  provide for participating students and program alternates any mentoring programs required by the council at the undergraduate level and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary; and(7)  provide support services, including postbaccalaureate mentoring programs required by the council, to participating students who enroll in the medical school.(b)  The Baylor College of Medicine must agree under Subsection (a) to set aside under Subsection (a)(3) not less than 10 percent of its enrollment capacity set aside for students who are entitled to pay tuition at the rate provided by Chapter 54 for resident students.
Sec. 51.831.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Each private or independent institution of higher education must enter into an agreement with the council under which the institution agrees to:(1)  provide academic counseling to a participating student or program alternate enrolled at the institution;(2)  as soon as practicable, implement or expand appropriate degree programs as necessary to provide participating students with sufficient preparation for enrollment in participating medical schools;(3)  select a faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to assist in implementing the program at the institution and in implementing or expanding the institution's degree programs as necessary under Subdivision (2); and(4)  provide, in addition to any other scholarship money awarded to the student, a scholarship to a participating student in the amount required for a participating student attending a general academic teaching institution, except that the amount of scholarship awards may not exceed the amount of tuition and fees that the student is charged.
Sec. 51.842.  ADMISSION AND SCHOLARSHIP FACTORS FOR GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  A graduate or professional program of a general academic teaching institution or medical or dental unit may consider the following factors in making an admissions or scholarship decision for admissions into or competitive scholarships for the graduate or professional program:(1)  an applicant's academic record as a high school student and undergraduate student;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school and was an undergraduate student, including any change in that background;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an undergraduate program or from a graduate or professional program;(4)  whether the applicant has multilingual proficiency;(5)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending elementary and secondary school and as an undergraduate student, including whether the applicant was employed, whether the applicant helped to raise children, and other similar factors;(6)  to achieve geographic diversity, the applicant's region of residence at the time of application and, if the applicant graduated from a public high school in this state within the preceding 20 years, the region in which the applicant's school district is located;(7)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(8)  the applicant's demonstrated commitment to a particular field of study;(9)  for admission into a professional program, the current comparative availability of members of that profession in the applicant's region of residence while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school;(10)  whether the applicant was automatically admitted to a general academic teaching institution as an undergraduate student under Section 51.803;  and(11)  the applicant's personal interview.(b)  An applicant's performance on a standardized test may not be used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program as the sole criterion for consideration of the applicant or as the primary criterion to end consideration of the applicant.  If an applicant's performance on a standardized test is used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process, the applicant's performance must also be used to compare the applicant's test score with those of other applicants from similar socioeconomic backgrounds to the extent that those backgrounds can be properly determined and identified by the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit based on information provided in the institution's or unit's admissions or competitive scholarship process.  This subsection does not apply to a standardized test used to measure the English language proficiency of a student who is a graduate of a foreign institution of higher education.(c)  A general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit may not assign a specific weight to any one factor being considered in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admissions and competitive scholarships are first considered for a graduate or professional program under this subchapter, each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit shall publish in the catalog of the institution or unit a description of the factors to be considered by the institution or unit in making those admissions and competitive scholarship decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  Notwithstanding Subsection (d), if compliance with requirements of an accrediting agency effectively prevent a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit from timely publishing the factors to be considered in admissions decisions, the institution may delay publication of the factors, but shall publish the factors as soon as practicable when compliance with accrediting agency requirements permits.
Sec. 51.844.  READMISSION OF CERTAIN MILITARY PERSONNEL TO GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  This section applies only to a person who:(1)  was previously offered admission to, or was enrolled in, a graduate program or professional program at a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit;(2)  did not initially enroll in the program, or withdrew from the program, as applicable, because of the person's deployment as a member of the armed forces of the United States serving on active duty for the purpose of engaging in a combative military operation outside the United States; and(3)  seeks readmission to the program following the person's military deployment under Subdivision (2).(b)  A general academic teaching institution or a medical and dental unit must, regardless of the time since the person was initially offered admission to, or withdrew from, the program, as applicable:(1)  readmit a person to whom this section applies to the applicable graduate or professional program;(2)  apply credit toward the program for any course work previously completed by the person under the program; and(3)  accept a standardized test score previously submitted by that person for admission to the program.
SUBCHAPTER Y-1.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORSSec. 51.881.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Advisory committee" means the committee established under Section 38.202.(2)  "Anaphylaxis" means a sudden, severe, and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction that occurs when a person is exposed to an allergen.(3)  "Campus" means an educational unit under the management and control of an institution of higher education and may include, in addition to the main campus, off-campus and secondary locations, such as branch campuses, teaching locations, and regional centers.(4)  "Epinephrine auto-injector" means a disposable medical drug delivery device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is intended to be used to treat anaphylaxis.(5)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Personnel" means employees of an institution of higher education.(7)  "Physician" means a person who holds a license to practice medicine in this state.
Sec. 51.882.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education may adopt and implement a policy regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of epinephrine auto-injectors on the institution's campus.(b)  If a policy is adopted under Subsection (a), the policy:(1)  must provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis on the institution's campus; and(2)  may provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis at an off-campus event or while in transit to or from an off-campus event sponsored by the institution of higher education.(c)  The commissioner of state health services with advice from the advisory committee shall adopt rules regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of an epinephrine auto-injector on the campus of an institution of higher education subject to a policy adopted under Subsection (a).  The rules must establish:(1)  the number of epinephrine auto-injectors available at each campus;(2)  the process for each institution of higher education to check the inventory of epinephrine auto-injectors at regular intervals for expiration and replacement; and(3)  the amount of training required for personnel or volunteers to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(d)  Each institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a):(1)  must require that the institution's campuses have personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector present; and(2)  shall include the policy in the institution's student handbook or similar publication and publish the policy on the institution's Internet website.(e)  The supply of epinephrine auto-injectors at a campus must be stored in a secure location and be easily accessible to personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(f)  An institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a) shall submit to the Department of State Health Services a copy of the policy and any amendment to the policy adopted by the institution.  The department shall maintain a record of the most recent policy and amendments submitted by each institution under this subsection and shall make that information available to the public on request.
Sec. 51.883.  REPORT ON ADMINISTERING EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTOR.  (a)  Not later than the 10th business day after the date a personnel member or volunteer administers an epinephrine auto-injector in accordance with a policy adopted under Section 51.882(a), the institution of higher education shall report the information required under Subsection (b) to:(1)  the physician who prescribed the epinephrine auto-injector; and(2)  the commissioner of state health services.(b)  The report required under this section must include the following information:(1)  the age of the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector;(2)  whether the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector was a student, a personnel member, or a visitor;(3)  the physical location where the epinephrine auto-injector was administered;(4)  the number of doses of epinephrine auto-injector administered;(5)  the title of the person who administered the epinephrine auto-injector; and(6)  any other information required by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.885.  PRESCRIPTION OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  A physician may prescribe epinephrine auto-injectors in the name of an institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Section 51.882(a).  The physician shall provide the institution with a standing order for the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector to a person reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis.(b)  The standing order under Subsection (a) is not required to be patient-specific, and the epinephrine auto-injector may be administered to a person without an established physician-patient relationship.(c)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, supervision or delegation by a physician is considered adequate if the physician:(1)  periodically reviews the order; and(2)  is available through direct telecommunication as needed for consultation, assistance, and direction.(d)  An order issued under this section must contain:(1)  the name and signature of the prescribing physician;(2)  the name of the institution of higher education to which the order is issued;(3)  the quantity of epinephrine auto-injectors to be obtained and maintained under the order; and(4)  the date of issue.(e)  A pharmacist may dispense an epinephrine auto-injector to an institution of higher education without requiring the name or any other identifying information relating to the user.
Sec. 51.888.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY.  (a)  A person who in good faith takes, or fails to take, any action under this subchapter is immune from civil or criminal liability or disciplinary action resulting from that act or failure to act, including:(1)  issuing an order for epinephrine auto-injectors;(2)  supervising or delegating the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector;(3)  possessing an epinephrine auto-injector;(4)  maintaining an epinephrine auto-injector;(5)  storing an epinephrine auto-injector;(6)  disposing of an epinephrine auto-injector;(7)  prescribing an epinephrine auto-injector;(8)  dispensing an epinephrine auto-injector;(9)  administering, or assisting in administering, an epinephrine auto-injector;(10)  providing, or assisting in providing, training, consultation, or advice in the development, adoption, or implementation of policies, guidelines, rules, or plans; or(11)  undertaking any other act permitted or required under this subchapter.(b)  The immunity provided by Subsection (a) is in addition to other immunity or limitations of liability provided by law.(c)  Notwithstanding any other law, this subchapter does not create a civil, criminal, or administrative cause of action or liability or create a standard of care, obligation, or duty that provides the basis for a cause of action for an act or omission under this subchapter.(d)  An institution of higher education or a campus of an institution of higher education is immune from suit resulting from an act, or failure to act, under this subchapter, including an act or failure to act under related policies and procedures.(e)  A cause of action does not arise from an act or omission described by this section.
Sec. 51.903.  ARCHIVES;  CERTIFIED COPIES.  (a)  The commissioners court of any county or any other custodian of public records may lend to the library of any state-supported institution of higher education, for any period and on any conditions it may determine, any parts of its archives or records that have become mainly of historical value.  The librarian shall give a receipt for any archives or records received.  The librarian may make copies for historical study.(b)  The librarian and the archivist of any state-supported institution of higher education are authorized to make certified copies of public records in the custody of the institution.  These certified copies are valid in law and have the same force and effect for all purposes as if certified by the county clerk or other custodian as otherwise provided by law.  In making a certified copy, the librarian or archivist shall certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the document, and after signing the certificate shall swear to it before any officer authorized to take oaths under the laws of this state.(c)  Nothing in this section affects the authority of the Texas State Librarian concerning public records as currently or later granted by law.
Text of section as amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1088, Sec. 1Sec. 51.904.  STREET CLOSING.  The governing board of an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 in a county having a population of more than 3 million may vacate, abandon, and close a street or alley running through the campus if the institution:(1)  owns all of the real property abutting the street or alley;(2)  owns 20 or more acres of real property at the campus where the street or alley is located;(3)  before the 45th day preceding the date the street or alley is to close, provides to the governing body of the political subdivision owning, controlling, or maintaining the street or alley written notice of the institution's intent to close the street or alley;  and(4)  for each utility line or facility in the affected street or alley that is owned by a governing body described by Subdivision (3) or a franchised utility company:(A)  grants an easement of sufficient size and configuration and with appropriate rights to enable the continued use, operation, and maintenance of the line or facility;  or(B)  moves the line or facility to another location:(i)  on the approval of the appropriate governing body and franchised utility company;  and(ii)  at the sole expense of the institution.
Sec. 51.905.  STATE-OWNED MUSEUM BUILDINGS.  (a)  The governing board of each state-supported institution of higher education commonly referred to as a senior college shall formulate and adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the use of a state-owned museum building located on its campus, including the designation of rooms or areas in honor of donors or other benefactors, if appropriate, and shall administer the expenditure of all state funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of such museum, including restoration or refurbishing of collections.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1975, 64th Leg., p. 1251, ch. 474, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1975.(c)  State funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of a museum located on a college or university campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section which are used or expended conjunctively with funds belonging to a historical society or group incorporated as a nonprofit organization are subject to audit by the state auditor in accordance with Chapter 321, Government Code, including all accounts, books, and other financial records of the state government and the nonprofit corporation pertaining to the expenditure of funds which have been used or expended jointly for constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, or improving such museum.  The state auditor shall prepare a written report or reports of such audit or audits to the Legislative Audit Committee and the governing board of the state-supported institution of higher education.(d)  No employee of a museum located on a campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section, who is paid in whole or in part by state funds may be employed or discharged except with the approval and consent of the governing board of the state-supported institution on which campus the museum is located.
Sec. 51.907.  LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF COURSES THAT MAY BE DROPPED UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an undergraduate student who drops a course at an institution of higher education and only if:(1)  the student was able to drop the course without receiving a grade or incurring an academic penalty;(2)  the student's transcript indicates or will indicate that the student was enrolled in the course; and(3)  the student is not dropping the course in order to withdraw from the institution.(b-1)  This section does not apply to a student enrolled in a competency-based baccalaureate degree program, as defined by Section 56.521.(c)  Except as provided under rules adopted under Subsection (d), an institution of higher education may not permit a student to drop more than six courses, including any course a transfer student has dropped at another institution of higher education, under circumstances described by Subsection (b).(c-1)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course that a student dropped while enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program previously earned by the student.(c-2)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a dual credit or dual enrollment course that a student dropped before graduating from high school.(d)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a policy under which the maximum number of courses a student is permitted to drop under circumstances described by Subsection (b) is less than the maximum number of courses that a student may drop under Subsection (c).(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop more courses under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if good cause exists for dropping more than that number, including:(1)  the student's showing of:(A)  a severe illness or other debilitating condition that affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(B)  the student's responsibility for the care of a sick, injured, or needy person if the provision of care affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(C)  the death of a person who:(i)  is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(ii) is otherwise considered to have a sufficiently close relationship to the student under a rule adopted under this subsection that the person's death is considered to be a showing of good cause; or(D)  the active duty service as a member of the Texas National Guard or the armed forces of the United States of:(i)  the student; or(ii) a person who is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(2)  a disaster declared by the governor under Section 418.014, Government Code, resulting in a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution of a duration that significantly affects the student's ability to participate in coursework, as determined in accordance with a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this subdivision.(e-1)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop one additional course under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if the student:(1)  has reenrolled at the institution following a break in enrollment from the institution or another institution of higher education covering the 24-month period preceding the first class day of the initial semester or other academic term of the student's reenrollment; and (2)  successfully completed at least 50 semester credit hours of course work at an institution of higher education before that break in enrollment.(e-2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course dropped by a student during the 2020 spring semester or summer term or the 2020-2021 academic year because of a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution during the applicable semester or term due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.(f)  In determining the number of courses dropped by a student for purposes of this section, a course, such as a laboratory or discussion course, in which a student is enrolled concurrently with a lecture course is not considered to be a course separate from the lecture course if:(1)  concurrent enrollment in both courses is required; and(2)  in dropping the lecture course, the student would be required to drop the laboratory, discussion, or other course in which the student is concurrently enrolled.
Sec. 51.9095.  STUDENT COMPLIANCE WITH SELECTIVE SERVICE REGISTRATION.  (a)  An individual may not receive a loan, grant, scholarship, or other financial assistance funded by state revenue, including federal funds or gifts and grants accepted by this state, or receive a student loan guaranteed by this state or the Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation, unless the individual files a statement of the individual's selective service status with the institution or other entity granting or guaranteeing the financial assistance as required by this section.(b)  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is registered with the selective service system as required by federal law, the individual is not required to file a statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the same entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is not required to register with the selective service system, the institution or other entity shall require the individual to file a new statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.(c)  This section does not apply to:(1)  a female individual if females are not subject to general selective service registration under federal law;  or(2)  an individual older than the maximum age at which an individual is required to be registered with the selective service system under federal law.(d)  The statement of an individual's selective service status required by this section must require the individual to certify that the individual:(1)  has registered with the selective service system as required by federal law;  or(2)  is exempt from selective service registration under federal law.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education of the required statement and the applicable rules.  The statement must require an individual claiming to be exempt from registration to specify the basis of the exemption.  The coordinating board may require an individual filing a statement of selective service status to include with the statement any additional information or documentation the coordinating board determines appropriate.
Sec. 51.911.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(2)  "Religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.(b)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or other required activities, including examinations, for the observance of a religious holy day, including travel for that purpose.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to take an examination or complete an assignment from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 218, Sec. 2.(d)  A student who is excused under this section may not be penalized for the absence, but the instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination.(e)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, shall adopt rules for the implementation of this section and shall disseminate the rules to the appropriate institutions under its jurisdiction.
Sec. 51.9111.  EXCUSED ABSENCE FOR REQUIRED MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Required military service" includes required military service performed by a member of the Texas National Guard or the Texas State Guard.(b)  This section applies only if:(1)  a student enrolled in an institution of higher education fails to attend classes or engage in other required activities because the student is called to required military service that is of a reasonably brief duration, as determined by rule adopted under Subsection (d); and(2)  the student chooses not to withdraw as authorized by Section 54.006(f).(c)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or engaging in other required activities, including examinations, in order for the student to participate in required military service to which the student is called, including travel associated with the service.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to complete an assignment or take an examination from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.  An instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination within a reasonable time after the absence.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish a maximum period for which a student may be excused under this section.  In establishing that period, the board shall consider the maximum period a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to learn the course material, complete course assignments, and succeed academically during the applicable semester or other academic period.
Sec. 51.9112.  RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS (ROTC) PROGRAM:  FEES AND COURSE CREDIT.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall determine a standard fee for a course offered through a Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program that takes into account the average statewide cost per student to an institution of higher education in providing the program, not including any reimbursement or other amounts the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.  Except as provided by Subsection (b), the governing board of each institution of higher education may not charge a student enrolled in an ROTC course any amount for the course in excess of the fee as determined by the coordinating board under this subsection.(b)  If the governing board of an institution of higher education offers course credit toward a student's degree for a course in which the student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, the governing board may charge the student tuition for that course as otherwise provided by Chapter 54 after subtracting any reimbursement or other amount the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.(c)  To the extent it will not adversely affect the accreditation status of an institution of higher education with the appropriate accrediting agency, the governing board of the institution shall count courses in which a student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, including courses for which the student does not receive course credit toward the student's degree, in determining whether the student is enrolled as a full-time student.
Sec. 51.912.  EQUITY OWNERSHIP;  BUSINESS PARTICIPATION.  (a)  It is not a violation of Chapter 572, Government Code, or any other statute, rule, regulation, or the common law of the State of Texas for:(1)  an employee of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, who conceives, creates, discovers, invents, or develops intellectual property, to own or to be awarded any amount of equity interest or participation in, or, if approved by the institutional governing board, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board or an officer or an employee of, a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of that intellectual property;  or(2)  an individual, at the request and on behalf of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board of a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of intellectual property in which the university system or institution of higher education has an ownership interest.(b)  An employee or individual covered by Subsection (a) of this section must report to the appropriate person or persons at the system or institution at which the person is employed or on behalf of which the person is serving the name of such business entity in which the person has an interest or for which the person serves as a director, officer, or employee.(c)  The governing board of each system and institution shall include in the appropriate annual report required by Section 51.005 the information that is provided to it under Subsection (b) of this section during the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 51.913.  EXECUTIVE SEARCH COMMITTEES.  (a)  As used in this section, the term "executive search committee" shall mean a committee formed by an act of a board of regents of an institution of higher education, which has as its primary purpose the evaluation and assessment of candidates and nominees for the position of chief executive officer of a system administration, institution of higher education, or other agency of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The board of regents shall announce the name, background, and qualifications of any individual it selects and employs by use of such a committee.  Additionally, public notice of the name or names of the finalist or finalists being considered by the search committee must be made public record at least 21 days prior to the meeting at which final action or vote is to be taken on the employment of the individual.
Sec. 51.914.  PROTECTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.  (a)  In order to protect the actual or potential value, the following information is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, or otherwise:(1)  all information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such a product, device, or process, and all technological and scientific information (including computer programs) developed in whole or in part at a state institution of higher education, regardless of whether patentable or capable of being registered under copyright or trademark laws, that have a potential for being sold, traded, or licensed for a fee;(2)  any information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such product, device, or process, and any technological and scientific information (including computer programs) that is the proprietary information of a person, partnership, corporation, or federal agency that has been disclosed to an institution of higher education solely for the purposes of a written research contract or grant that contains a provision prohibiting the institution of higher education from disclosing such proprietary information to third persons or parties; or(3)  the plans, specifications, blueprints, and designs, including related proprietary information, of a scientific research and development facility that is jointly financed by the federal government and a local government or state agency, including an institution of higher education, if the facility is designed and built for the purposes of promoting scientific research and development and increasing the economic development and diversification of this state.(b)  Information maintained by or for an institution of higher education that would reveal the institution's plans or negotiations for commercialization or a proposed research agreement, contract, or grant, or that consists of unpublished research or data that may be commercialized, is not subject to Chapter 552, Government Code, unless the information has been published, is patented, or is otherwise subject to an executed license, sponsored research agreement, or research contract or grant.  In this subsection, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.917.  FACULTY MEMBERS;  USE OF ENGLISH.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but does not include a medical or dental unit.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who teaches a course offered for academic credit by an institution of higher education, including teaching assistants, instructors, lab assistants, research assistants, lecturers, assistant professors, associate professors, and full professors.(3)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a program or a short course the purpose of which is to:(1)  assist faculty members whose primary language is not English to become proficient in the use of English;  and(2)  ensure that courses offered for credit at the institution are taught in the English language and that all faculty members are proficient in the use of the English language, as determined by a satisfactory grade on the "Test of Spoken English" of the Educational Testing Service or a similar test approved by the board.(c)  A faculty member may use a foreign language to conduct foreign language courses designed to be taught in a foreign language.(d)  This section does not prohibit a faculty member from providing individual assistance during course instruction to a non-English-speaking student in the native language of the student.(e)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(15), eff. June 17, 2011.(f)  The cost of such English proficiency course as determined by the coordinating board shall be paid by the faculty member lacking proficiency in English.  A faculty member must take the course until deemed proficient in English by his or her supervisor.  The cost will be deducted from said faculty member's salary.
Sec. 51.918.  RURAL HEALTH;  FAMILY PRACTICE RESIDENCY PROGRAM.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, the Texas Department of Rural Affairs, medical schools, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences shall cooperate to improve and expand programs for rural areas.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall:(1)  encourage and coordinate the creation or expansion of a rural preceptor program among medical schools, teaching hospitals, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences;  and(2)  require family practice residency programs to provide an opportunity for residents to have a one-month rotation through:(A)  a rural setting;  and(B)  a public health setting.(c)  The Texas Department of Rural Affairs shall develop relief service programs for rural physicians and allied health personnel to facilitate ready access to continuing medical education as well as to provide practice coverage for purposes other than continuing medical education.(d)  Each medical school shall:(1)  incorporate a clerkship in family practice during the third core clinical year;  and(2)  report to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board on its efforts to fulfill the intent of Chapter 58, Education Code, of having at least 25 percent of their first year primary care residents in family practice.
Sec. 51.919.  HIV AND AIDS POLICY;  INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome as defined by the Centers for Disease Control of the United States Public Health Service.(2)  "HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall make available the institution's policy on HIV infection and AIDS to students, faculty, and staff members by including the policy in the student handbook and personnel handbook if practicable or by any other method.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall make available to students, on request, the educational pamphlet on HIV infection developed by the Texas Department of Health and shall include in the student handbook a statement that the pamphlet is available from the institution.(d)  The student health center of each institution of higher education shall provide clear, accurate information on how to prevent the transmission of HIV infection, including:(1)  the value of abstinence and long-term mutual monogamy;(2)  information on the efficacy and use of condoms;(3)  offering of or referring students, faculty, or staff members to anonymous HIV counseling and testing services;  and(4)  state laws relating to the transmission and to conduct that may result in the transmission of HIV.(e)  The curricula of medical, dental, nursing, allied health, counseling, and social work degree programs of institutions of higher education shall:(1)  include information about:(A)  methods of transmission and methods of prevention of HIV infection;  and(B)  federal and state laws, rules, and regulations concerning HIV infection and AIDS;  and(2)  give special attention to the physical, emotional, and psychological stress associated with the care of patients with terminal illnesses.
Sec. 51.9191.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS INFORMATION FOR NEW STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "New student" means a first-time student of an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education and includes a student who transfers to the institution from another institution.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide information relating to bacterial meningitis to new students of the institution.  The procedures must provide for the information to be provided in a brochure or other manner so that the information is reasonably likely to come to the attention of each student.  The coordinating board shall prescribe the form and content of the information.  The information must cover:(1)  the symptoms of the disease, how it may be diagnosed, and its possible consequences if untreated;(2)  how the disease is transmitted, how it may be prevented, and the relative risk of contracting the disease for students of institutions of higher education;(3)  the availability and effectiveness of vaccination against and treatment for the disease, including how students of the institution may seek vaccination or treatment and whether a vaccination is available from the student health center, and a brief description of the risks and possible side effects of vaccination;  and(4)  sources of additional information regarding the disease and include the telephone numbers of the student health center, if there is a student health center, and the appropriate office of the Texas Department of Health.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall consult with the Texas Department of Health in prescribing the content of the information to be provided to students under this section.  The coordinating board shall establish an advisory committee to assist the coordinating board in the initial implementation of this section.  The advisory committee must include at least two members who are students at public or private institutions of higher education.(d)  An institution of higher education, with the written consent of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, may provide the information required by this section to new students of the institution by a method different from the method prescribed by the coordinating board under Subsection (b) if the coordinating board determines that method would be effective in bringing the information to the attention of all new students of the institution.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall make reasonable efforts to obtain from each new student of the institution a confirmation signed or acknowledged by the student that the student has received the information required to be provided to the student under this section and shall retain the confirmation for not less than two years after the student first enrolls at the institution.(f)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and the Texas Department of Health shall encourage private or independent institutions of higher education to provide the information prescribed by Subsection (b) to all new students of those institutions.
Sec. 51.9192.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS; EXCEPTIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health practitioner" means any person authorized  by law to administer an immunization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an entering student at an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education.  This section does not apply to a student of an institution who is enrolled only in online or other distance education courses or who is 22 years of age or older.  For purposes of this subsection, "entering student" includes:(1)  a new student, as defined by Section 51.9191; and(2)  a student who previously attended an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education before January 1, 2012, and who is enrolling in the same or another institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education following a break in enrollment of at least one fall or spring semester.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (d), a student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student must provide to the institution, at the time and in the manner prescribed by rules adopted by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, a certificate signed by a health practitioner or an official immunization record evidencing that the student has received a bacterial meningitis vaccination dose or booster during the five-year period preceding the date established by the coordinating board under Subsection (e).(d)  A student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student is not required to comply with Subsection (c) if the student or a parent or guardian of the student submits to the institution:(1)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine in the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the vaccination required would be injurious to the health and well-being of the student; or(2)  an affidavit signed by the student stating that the student declines the vaccination for bacterial meningitis for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief, or confirmation that the student has completed the Internet-based process described by Subsection (d-3) for declining the vaccination on that basis, if applicable to the student.(d-1)  The exemption provided by Subsection (d)(2) does not apply during a disaster or public health emergency, terrorist attack, hostile military or paramilitary action, or extraordinary law enforcement emergency declared by an appropriate official or other authority and in effect for the location of the institution the student attends.(d-2)  An affidavit submitted under Subsection (d)(2) must be:(1)  on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code; and(2)  submitted to the appropriate admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(d-3)  The Department of State Health Services shall develop and implement a secure, Internet-based process to be used exclusively at those public junior colleges that elect to use the process to allow an entering student to apply online for an exemption from the vaccination requirement under this section for reasons of conscience.  The online process portal must be designed to ensure that duplicate exemption requests are avoided to the greatest extent possible.  The exemption form used by a student to claim an exemption under the process must contain a statement indicating that the student understands the benefits and risks of the immunization and the benefits and risks of not receiving the immunization.(d-4)  A public junior college may require an entering student to use the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3) as the exclusive method to apply for an exemption from the vaccination required under this section for reasons of conscience.(d-5)  The Department of State Health Services shall report to the legislature annually the number of exemptions applied for in the preceding academic year using the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3).(d-6)  An institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education shall provide, with the registration materials that the institution provides to a student to whom this section applies before the student's initial enrollment in the institution, written notice of the right of the student or of a parent or guardian of the student to claim an exemption from the vaccination requirement in the manner prescribed by Subsection (d) and of the importance of consulting a physician about the need for immunization to prevent the disease.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education and private or independent institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for the administration of this section, including rules establishing the date by which a student who is required to comply with Subsection (c) must have received the vaccination required by that subsection, which may not be later than the 10th day before the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls unless the student is granted an extension by the institution as provided by the rules adopted under this subsection.  The rules must authorize an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education to extend the compliance date for an individual student to a date that is not later than the 10th day after the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls.(f)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9193.  REQUIRED POSTING OF MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES.  (a) In this section, "local mental health authority" has the meaning assigned by Section 531.002, Health and Safety Code.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(c)  Each institution to which this section applies shall:(1)  create a web page on the institution's Internet website that:(A)  is dedicated solely to information regarding the mental health resources available to students at the institution, regardless of whether the resources are provided by the institution; and(B)  includes the address of the nearest local mental health authority; and(2)  maintain a conspicuous link on the institution's Internet website home page to the web page described by Subdivision (1).(d)  Not later than August 1 of each year, the president or the president's designee of an institution to which this section applies shall certify to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board the institution's compliance with this section.
Sec. 51.9194.  REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR ENTERING STUDENTS REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH AND SUICIDE PREVENTION SERVICES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall provide to each entering undergraduate, graduate, or professional student, including each undergraduate, graduate, or professional student who transfers to the institution, information about:(1)  available mental health and suicide prevention services offered by the institution or by any associated organizations or programs; and(2)  early warning signs that are often present in and appropriate intervention for a person who may be considering suicide.(c)  The information required under this section:(1)  may be provided through:(A)  a live presentation; or(B)  a format that allows for student interaction, such as an online program or video;(2)  may not be provided in a paper format only; and(3)  must include a campus map identifying any location at which mental health services are provided to students on campus and information regarding how to access the services.(d)  If an institution of higher education provides a tour during an on-campus orientation for entering students, the tour must identify at least one location described by Subsection (c)(3) that is available for use by all students of the institution.
Sec. 51.91941.  SUICIDE PREVENTION INFORMATION REQUIRED ON STUDENT IDENTIFICATION CARD.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each student identification card issued by an institution of higher education:(1)  must have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; and(B)  the Crisis Text Line; and(2)  may have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the campus police department or security for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a campus police department or security, a local nonemergency police contact;(B)  the campus health clinic for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a health clinic, a local health clinic; and(C)  a local suicide prevention hotline, if available.
Sec. 51.9195.  INFORMATION FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS REGARDING BENEFITS OF TIMELY GRADUATION.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" and "public state college" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution other than a public state college.(c)  An institution to which this section applies shall provide to each first-time entering undergraduate student, including each undergraduate student who transfers to the institution, information in electronic or paper format that includes, based on a reasonable projection by the institution using the most recently available data:(1)  a comparison of the average total amounts of tuition and fees paid by a full-time student who graduates from the institution in the following number of academic years:(A)  four years;(B)  five years; and(C)  six years; and(2)  an estimate of the average earnings lost by a recent graduate of the institution as a result of graduating after five or six years instead of four years.(d)  An institution to which this section applies shall include with the information provided to a student under Subsection (c):(1)  a list of actions that the student can take to facilitate graduating from the institution in a timely manner; and(2)  contact information for available academic, career, and other related support services at the institution to assist the student in that effort.(e)  An institution to which this section applies may satisfy the requirements of Subsections (c)(1) and (2) with regard to a student by providing the student with information that is more specific than the information described by those subdivisions.
Sec. 51.921.  POSTING OF STEROID LAW NOTICE.  Each public institution of higher education shall post in a conspicuous location in each gymnasium at the institution the following notice:Anabolic steroids and growth hormones are for medical use only.  State law prohibits the possession, dispensing, delivery, or administering of an anabolic steroid or growth hormone in any manner not allowed by state law.  State law provides that body building, muscle enhancement, or increasing muscle bulk or strength through the use of an anabolic steroid by a person who is in good health is not a valid medical purpose.  Only a medical doctor may prescribe an anabolic steroid or human growth hormone for a person.  A violation of state law concerning anabolic steroids or human growth hormones is a criminal offense punishable by confinement in jail or imprisonment in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.
Sec. 51.923.  QUALIFICATIONS OF CERTAIN BUSINESS ENTITIES TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Business entity" means any entity recognized by law through which business is conducted, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, or trust.(2)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Nonprofit corporation" means any organization exempt from federal income tax under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that does not distribute any part of its income to any member, director, or officer.(b)  A nonprofit corporation is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education also serves as a member, director, officer, or employee of the nonprofit corporation.(c)  A business entity is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education have an interest in the business entity, subject to Subsection (d).(d)  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from entering into a contract or other transaction with a business entity in which a member of the governing board of the institution of higher education has an interest if the interest is not a substantial interest or, if the interest is a substantial interest, the board member discloses that interest in a meeting held in compliance with Chapter 551, Government Code, and refrains from voting on the contract or transaction requiring board approval.  Any such contract or transaction requiring board approval must be approved by an affirmative majority of the board members voting on the contract or transaction.(e)  For purposes of this section, a member of a governing board has a substantial interest in a business entity if:(1)  the member owns one percent or more of the voting stock or shares of the business entity or owns either one percent or more or $15,000 or more of the fair market value of the business entity;(2)  funds received by the member from the business entity exceed one percent of the member's gross income for the previous year;(3)  the member is an officer of the business entity or a member of the governing board of the business entity; or(4)  an individual related to the member in the first degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Chapter 573, Government Code, has an interest in the business entity as described by Subdivision (1), (2), or (3).(f)  A violation of this section does not render an action of the governing board voidable unless the contract or transaction that was the subject of the action would not have been approved by the governing board without the vote of the member who violated this section.
Sec. 51.9241.  ADMISSION OF STUDENT WITH NONTRADITIONAL SECONDARY EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Nontraditional secondary education" means a course of study at the secondary school level in a nonaccredited private school setting, including a home school.(b)  Because the State of Texas considers successful completion of a nontraditional secondary education to be equivalent to graduation from a public high school, an institution of higher education must treat an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education according to the same general standards, including specific standardized testing score requirements, as other applicants for undergraduate admission who have graduated from a public high school.(c)  An institution of higher education may not require an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education to:(1)  obtain or submit evidence that the person has obtained a general education development certificate, certificate of high school equivalency, or other credentials equivalent to a public high school degree;  or(2)  take an examination or comply with any other application or admission requirement not generally applicable to other applicants for undergraduate admission to the institution.(d)  If an institution of higher education in its undergraduate admission review process sorts applicants by high school graduating class rank, the institution shall place any applicant who presents evidence that the applicant has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education that does not include a high school graduating class ranking at the average high school graduating class rank of undergraduate applicants to the institution who have equivalent standardized testing scores as the applicant.
Sec. 51.9242.  READMISSION OF STUDENT WHO WITHDRAWS TO PERFORM ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  This section applies only to a student who withdraws from an institution of higher education to perform active military service as a member of the United States armed forces or the Texas National Guard, except that this section does not apply to a student who withdraws from an institution solely to perform one or more training exercises as a member of the Texas National Guard.(b)  For any academic term that begins after the date a student described by Subsection (a) is released from active military service but not later than the first anniversary of that date, the institution of higher education from which the student withdrew shall readmit the student, without requiring reapplication or charging a fee for readmission, if the student is otherwise eligible to register for classes at the institution.  On readmission of the student under this subsection, the institution shall:(1)  provide to the student any financial assistance previously provided by the institution to the student before the student's withdrawal if the student meets current eligibility requirements for the assistance, other than any requirement directly affected by the student's service, such as continuous enrollment or another similar timing requirement; and(2)  allow the student the same academic status that the student had before the student's withdrawal, including any course credit awarded to the student by the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's active military service.
Sec. 51.9245.  ADMISSION OF PERSON RECEIVING ATHLETIC SCHOLARSHIP.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution may not admit an applicant who has been promised or granted an athletic scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance conditioned on the student's participation in a sport, game, or other competition involving substantial physical ability or physical skill for or on a team organized or sponsored by the general academic teaching institution that is funded by state funds unless:(1)  if the general academic teaching institution requires a minimum high school grade point average as an admissions criterion for any entering freshman, that minimum applies to all freshmen being admitted;  or(2)  for an applicant other than an entering freshman, the applicant's cumulative college-level grade point average is equal to or greater than the minimum cumulative college-level grade point average required for an undergraduate student to remain enrolled at the institution in the preceding academic year.
Sec. 51.9246.  COMPENSATION AND PROFESSIONAL REPRESENTATION OF STUDENT ATHLETES PARTICIPATING IN INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athlete agent" has the meaning assigned by Section 2051.001, Occupations Code.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Honor code" means a set of rules or principles governing an academic community to which a student agrees to abide when attending an institution to which this section applies.(4)  "Institutional contract" means a contract between an institution to which this section applies or its designated representative and an external party that includes a sponsorship agreement governing the use of the institution's trademarks in connection with athletics.(5)  "Team contract" means a contract between a student athlete and an institution to which this section applies and includes any rules or expectations of the institution's athletic department or head coach that require a student athlete's compliance as a condition under the contract of participation as a member of the intercollegiate athletic program.(a-1)  For purposes of this section, official team activities of an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies include any activity the institution designates as an official team activity.(b)  This section applies only to:(1)  a general academic teaching institution; or(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(c)  An institution to which this section applies may not:(1)  adopt or enforce a policy, requirement, standard, or limitation that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution from:(A)  earning compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities, as that term is defined by the institution; or(B)  obtaining professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; or(2)  provide or solicit a prospective student athlete of an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution with compensation in relation to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(c-1)  An athletic association, an athletic conference, or any other group or organization with authority over an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not enforce a contract term, a rule, a regulation, a standard, or any other requirement that prohibits the institution from participating in intercollegiate athletics or otherwise penalizes the institution or the institution's intercollegiate athletic program for performing, participating in, or allowing an activity required or authorized by this section.(d)  A scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded to a student athlete by an institution to which this section applies that covers the student athlete's cost of attendance at the institution is not compensation for purposes of this section.(e)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not be disqualified from eligibility for a scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded by the institution because the student athlete:(1)  earns compensation from the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities; or(2)  obtains professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(f)  An institution to which this section applies may not prescribe a team contract for an intercollegiate athletic program that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete from using the student athlete's name, image, or likeness for a commercial purpose when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities.(g)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies:(1)  shall, before entering into the contract, disclose to the institution, in the manner prescribed by the institution, any proposed contract the student athlete may sign for use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness;(2)  may not enter into a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness if:(A)  any provision of the contract conflicts with a provision of the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution;(B)  the compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is provided:(i)  in exchange for athletic performance or accepting an offer of admission to attend the institution;(ii)  by the institution;(iii)  in exchange for an act that occurs while the athlete is engaged in an official team activity; or(iv)  in exchange for an endorsement of alcohol, tobacco products, e-cigarettes or any other type of nicotine delivery device, anabolic steroids, sports betting, casino gambling, a firearm the student athlete cannot legally purchase, or a sexually oriented business as defined in Section 243.002, Local Government Code; or(C)  the duration of the contract extends beyond the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(3)  is not considered an employee of the institution based on the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(4)  may earn compensation from selling the student athlete's autograph in a manner that does not otherwise conflict with a provision of this section; and(5)  may not use an institution's facility, uniform, registered trademark, copyright-protected product, or official logo, mark, or other indicia in connection with a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness unless the student athlete obtains the institution's express permission.(g-1)  The following activities do not constitute compensation provided by an institution to which this section applies under Subsection (g)(2)(B)(ii):(1)  an activity authorized under Subsection (m); or(2)  recognition by an institution to which this section applies of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness, or the entity's donors, including the institution's provision of priority status or other items of de minimis value equivalent to status or items the institution provides to the institution's donors.(g-2)  An institution may not authorize a use described by Subsection (g)(5) unless the institution requires that:(1)  the student athlete and the person contracting for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness comply with any requirements the institution establishes, including requirements related to licensing; and(2)  the institution is compensated for the use in an amount consistent with market rates.(h)  An institution to which this section applies that identifies a provision in a contract disclosed to the institution by a student athlete under Subsection (g)(1) that conflicts with a provision in the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution shall promptly disclose the conflict to the student athlete or the student athlete's representative, if applicable.  The student athlete or the student athlete's representative is responsible for resolving the conflict not later than the 10th day after the date of the disclosure.(i)  An institution to which this section applies shall require a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution to attend a financial literacy and life skills course during the student's first academic year at the institution.  The course must be at least five hours in duration and include information on financial aid, debt management, time management, budgeting, and academic resources available to the student athlete.  The institution may not during the course allow any provider of financial products or services to:(1)  market, advertise, or refer the provider's services to a student athlete; or(2)  solicit a student athlete to use the provider's services.(j)  No individual, corporate entity, or other organization may:(1)  enter into any arrangement with a prospective student athlete relating to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness prior to their enrollment in an institution of higher education; or(2)  use inducements of future name, image, and likeness compensation arrangement to recruit a prospective student athlete to any institution of higher education.(k)  Nothing in this section may be construed as permitting an athlete agent to take any action prohibited under Section 2051.351, Occupations Code.(l)  Information written, produced, collected, assembled, or maintained by an institution to which this section applies that includes or reveals any term of a contract or proposed contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is confidential and excepted from required public disclosure in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.  An institution to which this section applies may withhold information described by this subsection without requesting a decision from the attorney general under Subchapter G, Chapter 552, Government Code.(m)  An institution to which this section applies or third-party entity acting on the institution's behalf, or employee of the institution or third-party entity:(1)  may identify, create, facilitate, or otherwise assist with opportunities for a currently enrolled student athlete to earn compensation from a third party for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; and(2)  may not, in assisting a student athlete as described by Subdivision (1):(A)  act as an athlete agent for the student athlete;(B)  be compensated by the student athlete or third party for providing the assistance;(C)  attempt to influence the student athlete's choice of professional representation in connection with an opportunity; or(D)  attempt to diminish the student athlete's opportunities from competing third parties.(n)  A charitable organization exempt from taxation under Section 501(a), Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as an organization described by Section 501(c)(3) of that code, may compensate a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(o)  An activity of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness may not be construed as an act on behalf of an institution to which this section applies, provided that:(1)  the entity is a separate legal entity from the institution; and(2)  the institution does not own or control the entity.(p)  This section may not be construed as creating a cause of action against an institution or an institution's officers or employees relating to a student athlete's name, image, or likeness.
Sec. 51.925.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not discriminate against or penalize in any way a member of the faculty of the institution who is absent from work for the observance of a religious holy day and gives proper notice of that absence if the customary and generally applicable educational practices of the institution permit general personal absence by members of the faculty. If personal absence is customarily penalized, the penalty for absence due to observance of a religious holy day under this section shall be forfeiture of one day's pay equivalent for each day of absence.(b)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, except that the term includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(c)  In this section, "proper notice" means that the faculty member shall provide a listing of religious holy days to be observed during the semester to the chairman of the department and shall provide notice of such days in advance to all students whose class would be canceled due to the faculty member's absence.  Notice herein shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered to the chairman of the department, receipt therefor being acknowledged and dated by the chairman, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the chairman.(d)  In this section, "religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.
Sec. 51.926.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR QUALIFIED RETIREMENT PLANS.  (a)  On written authorization from a football coach who is entitled to participate in a qualified football coaches plan, an institution of higher education may:(1)  enter into a salary reduction agreement under which the salary of the coach is reduced by the amount of contribution to the plan;  and(2)  remit such contribution to the plan for credit to the coach's plan account.(b)  A person who participates in a qualified football coaches plan may also participate in another retirement plan or be a member of a retirement system established by law for employees of institutions of higher education.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "Qualified football coaches plan" means a retirement plan under Title 29 U.S.C. Section 1002(37)(F).
Sec. 51.927.  ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS.(a)  In this section, "energy savings performance contract" has the meaning assigned by Section 302.001, Local Government Code.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an energy savings performance contract in accordance with this section.(c)  Each energy or water conservation measure must comply with current local, state, and federal construction, plumbing, and environmental codes and regulations.  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), an energy savings performance contract may not include improvements or equipment that allow or cause water from any condensing, cooling, or industrial process or any system of nonpotable usage over which the public water supply system officials do not have sanitary control, to be returned to the potable water supply.(d)  The board may enter into energy savings performance contracts only with entities that are experienced in the design, implementation, and installation of the energy or water conservation measures addressed by the contract.(e)  Before entering into an energy savings performance contract, the board shall require the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to file with the board a payment and performance bond in accordance with Chapter 2253, Government Code.  The board may also require a separate bond to cover the value of the guaranteed savings on the contract.(f)  The board may enter into an energy savings performance contract for a period of more than one year only if the board finds that the amount the institution would spend on the energy or water conservation measures will not exceed the amount to be saved in energy, water, wastewater, and operating costs over 20 years from the date of installation.  If the term of the contract exceeds one year, the institution's contractual obligation in any year during the term of the contract beginning after the final date of installation may not exceed the total energy, water, wastewater, and operating cost savings, including electrical, gas, water, wastewater, or other utility cost savings and operating cost savings resulting from the measures, as determined by the board in this subsection, divided by the number of years in the contract term beginning after the final date of installation.  The board shall consider all costs of the energy or water conservation measures, including costs of design, engineering, installation, maintenance, repairs, and debt service.(g)  An energy savings performance contract may be financed:(1)  under a lease/purchase contract that has a term not to exceed 20 years from the final date of installation and that meets federal tax requirements for tax-free municipal leasing or long-term financing, including a lease/purchase contract under the master equipment lease purchase program administered by the Texas Public Finance Authority under Chapter 1232, Government Code;(2)  with the proceeds of bonds; or(3)  under a contract with the provider of the energy or water conservation measures that has a term not to exceed the lesser of 20 years from the final date of installation or the average useful life of the energy or water conservation or usage measures.(g-1)  Notwithstanding other law, the board may use any available money to pay the provider of the energy or water conservation measures under this section, and the board is not required to pay for such costs solely out of the savings realized by the institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract.  The board may contract with the provider to perform work that is related to, connected with, or otherwise ancillary to the measures identified in the scope of an energy savings performance contract.(h)  An energy savings performance contract shall contain provisions requiring the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to guarantee the amount of the savings to be realized by the institution of higher education under the contract.(i)  An energy savings performance contract shall be let according to the procedures established for procuring certain professional services by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  Notice of the request for qualifications shall be given in the manner provided by Section 2156.002, Government Code.  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with the State Energy Conservation Office with regard to energy and water conservation measures, shall establish guidelines and an approval process for awarding energy savings performance contracts.  The guidelines must require that the cost savings projected by an offeror be reviewed by a licensed professional engineer who has a minimum of three years of experience in energy calculation and review, is not an officer or employee of an offeror for the contract under review, and is not otherwise associated with the contract.  In conducting the review, the engineer shall focus primarily on the proposed improvements from an engineering perspective, the methodology and calculations related to cost savings, increases in revenue, and, if applicable, efficiency or accuracy of metering equipment.  An engineer who reviews a contract shall maintain the confidentiality of any proprietary information the engineer acquires while reviewing the contract.  A contract is not required to be reviewed or approved by the State Energy Conservation Office.  Sections 1001.053 and 1001.407, Occupations Code, apply to work performed under the contract.(j)  The legislature shall base an institution's appropriation for energy, water, and wastewater costs during a fiscal year on the sum of:(1)  the institution's estimated energy, water, and wastewater costs for that fiscal year;  and(2)  if an energy savings performance contract is in effect, the institution's estimated net savings resulting from the contract during the contract term, divided by the number of years in the contract term.(k)  Chapter 2269, Government Code, does not apply to this section.(l)  The guidelines established under Subsection (i) must require the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to:(1)  review any reports submitted to the board that measure and verify cost savings to an institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract; and(2)  based on the reports, provide an analysis, on a periodic basis, of the cost savings under the energy savings performance contract to the governing board of the institution of higher education and the Legislative Budget Board until the governing board of the institution of higher education determines that the analysis is no longer required to accurately measure cost savings.
Added by Acts 1991, 72nd Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 8, Sec. 3.07, eff. Sept. 1, 1991.  Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 76, Sec. 5.95(92), eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 773, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 165, Sec. 17.19, eff. Sept. 1, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1142, Sec. 2, eff. June 19, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 627, Sec. 1, eff. June 11, 1997;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 62, Sec. 4.03, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 361, Sec. 2, eff. Sept;  1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1450, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  ;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 573, Sec. 3, 4, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1319, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1310, Sec. 6, 121(2), eff. June 20, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 527 (S.B. 831), Sec. 2, eff. June 16, 2007.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 982 (H.B. 1728), Sec. 3, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1129 (H.B. 628), Sec. 3.02, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 161 (S.B. 1093), Sec. 22.002(7), eff. September 1, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 537 (S.B. 533), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 258 (H.B. 1571), Sec. 2, eff. May 29, 2017.
Sec. 51.929.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT BY CERTAIN RETAIL STORES.  (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this section, a retail store that is owned or operated by an institution of higher education may not enter into a transaction for the sale or lease of goods or services in which the institution extends the credit of the state to the obligor.(b)  This section does not apply to an extension of credit to a student for the purchase of books or other educational supplies if the credit may be offset against undistributed grant or loan funds that are held by the institution for the student or that the institution is entitled to receive on behalf of the student.  The institution may not withhold grant or loan funds to require the student to purchase books or educational supplies from a store that it owns or operates.(c)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.
Sec. 51.930.  NATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "National student exchange program" means the program administered by the National Student Exchange, a nonprofit corporation.(b)  General academic teaching institutions may participate in the national student exchange program for the purpose of providing reciprocal educational opportunities for undergraduate students of colleges and universities in the United States.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules relating to the participation of institutions of higher education and students in the national student exchange program.(d)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 54.051 of this code, a nonresident exchange student participating in the program may be charged the resident tuition rate during the period of participation in the program.(e)  A student participating in the program from another state shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 51.306 of this code unless that student becomes a degree-seeking undergraduate student at a Texas public institution of higher education.(f)  A student may not participate in the program for more than one year.
Sec. 51.931.  RIGHT TO AN ACADEMIC FRESH START.  (a)  This section applies to any public institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Unless otherwise prohibited by law, a resident of this state is entitled to apply for admission to and enroll as an undergraduate student in any public institution of higher education under this section.(c)  If an applicant elects to seek admission under this section, a public institution of higher education, in considering the applicant for admission, shall not consider academic course credits or grades earned by the applicant 10 or more years prior to the starting date of the semester in which the applicant seeks to enroll.  An applicant who makes the election to apply under this section and is admitted as a student may not receive any course credit for courses undertaken 10 or more years prior to enrollment under this section.(d)  If a student who enrolls under this section completes a prescribed course of study, earns a baccalaureate degree, and applies for admission to a postgraduate or professional program offered by a public institution of higher education, the institution, in considering the applicant for admission into the postgraduate or professional program, shall consider only the grade point average of the applicant established by the course work completed after enrollment under this section, along with any other criteria the institution uses in evaluating applicants for admission into the postgraduate or professional program.(e)  Nothing in this section prohibits a public institution of higher education from applying standard admissions criteria generally applicable to persons seeking admission to the institution.
Sec. 51.9315.  PROTECTED EXPRESSION ON CAMPUS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Benefit" includes:(A)  recognition by or registration with an institution of higher education;(B)  the use of an institution of higher education's facilities for meetings or speaking purposes;(C)  the use of channels of communication controlled by an institution of higher education; and(D)  funding sources made generally available to student organizations at an institution of higher education.(2)  "Expressive activities" means any speech or expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or by Section 8, Article I, Texas Constitution, and includes assemblies, protests, speeches, the distribution of written material, the carrying of signs, and the circulation of petitions.  The term does not include commercial speech.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at an institution of higher education and that receives a benefit from the institution.(b)  It is the policy of this state and the purpose of this section to protect the expressive rights of persons guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States and of this state by:(1)  recognizing freedom of speech and assembly as central to the mission of institutions of higher education; and(2)  ensuring that all persons may assemble peaceably on the campuses of institutions of higher education for expressive activities, including to listen to or observe the expressive activities of others.(c)  An institution of higher education shall:(1)  ensure that the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus are deemed traditional public forums; and(2)  permit any person to engage in expressive activities in those areas of the institution's campus freely, as long as the person's conduct:(A)  is not unlawful; and(B)  does not materially and substantially disrupt the functioning of the institution.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may adopt a policy that imposes reasonable restrictions on the time, place, and manner of expressive activities in the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus if those restrictions:(1)  are narrowly tailored to serve a significant institutional interest;(2)  employ clear, published, content-neutral, and viewpoint-neutral criteria;(3)  provide for ample alternative means of expression; and(4)  allow members of the university community to assemble or distribute written material without a permit or other permission from the institution.(e)  Subsections (c) and (d) do not:(1)  limit the right of student expression at other campus locations; or(2)  prohibit faculty members from maintaining order in the classroom.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy detailing students' rights and responsibilities regarding expressive activities at the institution.  The policy must:(1)  allow:(A)  any person to, subject to reasonable restrictions adopted under Subsection (d), engage in expressive activities on campus, including by responding to the expressive activities of others; and(B)  student organizations and faculty to, subject to Subsection (h), invite speakers to speak on campus;(2)  establish disciplinary sanctions for students, student organizations, or faculty who unduly interfere with the expressive activities of others on campus;(3)  include a grievance procedure for addressing complaints of a violation of this section;(4)  be approved by a majority vote of the institution's governing board before final adoption; and(5)  be posted on the institution's Internet website.(g)  An institution of higher education may not take action against a student organization or deny the organization any benefit generally available to other student organizations at the institution on the basis of a political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic viewpoint expressed by the organization or of any expressive activities of the organization.(h)  In determining whether to approve a speaker to speak on campus or in determining the amount of a fee to be charged for use of the institution's facilities for purposes of engaging in expressive activities, an institution of higher education:(1)  may consider only content-neutral and viewpoint-neutral criteria related to the needs of the event, such as:(A)  the proposed venue and the expected size of the audience;(B)  any anticipated need for campus security;(C)  any necessary accommodations; and(D)  any relevant history of compliance or noncompliance by the requesting student organization or faculty member with the institution's policy adopted under Subsection (f) and any other relevant policies; and(2)  may not consider any anticipated controversy related to the event.(i)  Each institution of higher education shall make the institution's policies adopted in accordance with this section available to students enrolled at and employees of the institution by:(1)  including the policies in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook;(2)  providing a copy of each policy to students during the institution's freshman or transfer student orientation; and(3)  posting the policies on the institution's Internet website.(j)  Each institution of higher education shall develop materials, programs, and procedures to ensure that the institution's employees responsible for educating or disciplining students understand the requirements of this section and all policies adopted by the institution in accordance with this section.
Sec. 51.932.  MOTOR VEHICLES OWNED AND USED BY STATE-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  A motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that is the property of and used exclusively by any institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 must have the name of the institution printed on the side of the vehicle.  The inscription must be in a color sufficiently different from the body of the vehicle and must be of letters of sufficient height so that the lettering is plainly legible at a distance of not less than 100 feet.  This subsection does not apply to a motor vehicle used by:(1)  a peace officer commissioned under Subchapter E;  or(2)  a chancellor or president of an institution of higher education.(b)  A person commits an offense if the person operates a vehicle subject to Subsection (a) without the proper inscription.  An offense under this subsection is a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.9325.  RETIREMENT INCENTIVES.  (a)  A medical and dental unit may offer a retirement incentive to an employee of the unit who is eligible to retire under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(b)  A medical and dental unit offering a retirement incentive plan shall file the plan with the Legislative Budget Board not later than the 61st day before the date the plan is implemented and shall provide the board with any information concerning the plan required by the board.(c)  A medical and dental unit may not rehire an employee receiving a retirement incentive under this section without the specific approval of the president of the unit.  The president may not delegate this responsibility to any other employee of the unit.(d)  A retirement incentive offered to an employee by a medical and dental unit under this section must be paid from institutional funds or hospital or clinic fees.(e)  A retirement incentive paid by a medical and dental unit to an employee is not subject to any provision of state law that entitles the employee to benefits based on salary or compensation, including contributions under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(f)  In this section:(1)  "Institutional funds" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.009(b).(2)  "Medical and dental unit" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.
Sec. 51.933.  IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS;  EXCEPTION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may require applicants for admission to be immunized against diphtheria, rubeola, rubella, mumps, tetanus, and poliomyelitis, except as provided in Subsection (d).(b)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission may require immunizations against the diseases listed in Subsection (a) and additional diseases for students at any institution of higher education who are pursuing a course of study in a human or animal health profession, and the executive commissioner may require those immunizations for any students in times of an emergency or epidemic in a county where the commissioner of state health services has declared such an emergency or epidemic.(b-1)  A rule adopted under Subsection (b) that requires a hepatitis B vaccination for students may apply only to students enrolled in a course of study that involves potential exposure to human or animal blood or bodily fluids.(c)  An institution of higher education, in conjunction with the Department of State Health Services, should provide individual notice to each student applying for admission regarding:(1)  the consequences of not being current on immunization for certain diseases;(2)  the age groups most vulnerable to these vaccine preventable diseases;  and(3)  local providers of immunization services.(d)  No form of immunization is required for a person's admission to an institution of higher education if the person applying for admission:(1)  submits to the admitting official:(A)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine within the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the immunization required poses a significant risk to the health and well-being of the applicant or any member of the applicant's family or household;  or(B)  an affidavit signed by the applicant or, if a minor, by the applicant's parent or guardian stating that the applicant declines immunization for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief;  or(2)  is a member of the armed forces of the United States and is on active duty.(d-1)  An affidavit submitted under Section (d)(1)(B) must be on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code, and must be submitted to the admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(e)  The exception provided by Subsection (d)(1)(B) does not apply in a time of emergency or epidemic declared by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.9335.  ACQUISITION OF GOODS AND SERVICES.  (a)  An institution of higher education may acquire goods or services by the method that provides the best value to the institution, including:(1)  competitive bidding;(2)  competitive sealed proposals;(3)  a catalogue purchase;(4)  a group purchasing program;  or(5)  an open market contract.(b)  In determining what is the best value to an institution of higher education, the institution shall consider:(1)  the purchase price;(2)  the reputation of the vendor and of the vendor's goods or services;(3)  the quality of the vendor's goods or services;(4)  the extent to which the goods or services meet the institution's needs;(5)  the vendor's past relationship with the institution;(6)  the impact on the ability of the institution to comply with laws and rules relating to historically underutilized businesses and to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities;(7)  the total long-term cost to the institution of acquiring the vendor's goods or services;(8)  any other relevant factor that a private business entity would consider in selecting a vendor;  and(9)  the use of material in construction or repair to real property that is not proprietary to a single vendor unless the institution provides written justification in the request for bids for use of the unique material specified.(c)  The state auditor may audit purchases of goods or services by an institution of higher education or by a component of an institution of higher education that purchases goods and services.(d)  Subject to Section 51.9337, Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Subchapter B, Chapter 2254, Government Code, do not apply to the acquisition of goods and services under this section, except that an institution of higher education must comply with any provision of those laws, or a rule adopted under a provision of those laws, relating to contracting with historically underutilized businesses or relating to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities.  An institution of higher education may, but is not required to, acquire goods or services as provided by Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center or a public junior college.(f)  This section does not apply to professional services as defined by Section 2254.002, Government Code.  Professional services shall be procured in accordance with Subchapter A, Chapter 2254, Government Code.(g)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules and procedures for the acquisition of goods or services.(h)  In any contract for the acquisition of goods and services to which an institution of higher education is a party, a provision required by applicable law to be included in the contract is considered to be a part of the executed contract without regard to:(1)  whether the provision appears on the face of the contract; or(2)  whether the contract includes any provision to the contrary.
Sec. 51.9337.  PURCHASING AUTHORITY CONDITIONAL; REQUIRED STANDARDS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not exercise the acquisition authority granted by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 unless the institution complies with this section.  An institution that is determined under Subsection (j) to not be in compliance with this section is subject to the laws governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code.(b)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education by rule shall establish for each institution under the management and control of the board:(1)  a code of ethics for the institution's officers and employees, including provisions governing officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, subject to Subsection (c);(2)  policies for the internal investigation of suspected defalcation, misappropriation, and other fiscal irregularities and an institutional or systemwide compliance program designed to promote ethical behavior and ensure compliance with all applicable policies, laws, and rules governing higher education, including research and health care to the extent applicable;(3)  a contract management handbook that provides consistent contracting policies and practices and contract review procedures, including a risk analysis procedure, subject to Subsection (d);(4)  contracting delegation guidelines, subject to Subsections (e) and (f);(5)  training for officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, including training in ethics, selection of appropriate procurement methods, and information resources purchasing technologies; and(6)  internal audit protocols, subject to Subsection (g).(c)  The code of ethics governing an institution of higher education must include:(1)  general standards of conduct and a statement that each officer or employee is expected to obey all federal, state, and local laws and is subject to disciplinary action for a violation of those laws;(2)  policies governing conflicts of interest, conflicts of commitment, and outside activities, ensuring that the primary responsibility of officers and employees is to accomplish the duties and responsibilities assigned to that position;(3)  a conflict of interest policy that prohibits employees from having a direct or indirect financial or other interest, engaging in a business transaction or professional activity, or incurring any obligation that is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the employee's duties related to the public interest;(4)  a conflict of commitment policy that prohibits an employee's activities outside the institution from interfering with the employee's duties and responsibilities to the institution;(5)  a policy governing an officer's or employee's outside activities, including compensated employment and board service, that clearly delineates the nature and amount of permissible outside activities and that includes processes for disclosing the outside activities and for obtaining and documenting institutional approval to perform the activities;(6)  a policy that prohibits an officer or employee from acting as an agent for another person in the negotiation of the terms of an agreement relating to the provision of money, services, or property to the institution;(7)  a policy governing the use of institutional resources; and(8)  a policy providing for the regular training of officers and employees on the policies described by this subsection.(d)  An institution of higher education shall establish contract review procedures and a contract review checklist that must be reviewed and approved by the institution's legal counsel before implementation.  The review procedures and checklist must include:(1)  a description of each step of the procedure that an institution must use to evaluate and process contracts;(2)  a checklist that describes each process that must be completed before contract execution; and(3)  a value threshold that initiates the required review by the institution's legal counsel unless the contract is a standard contract previously approved by the counsel.(e)  An institution of higher education's policies governing contracting authority must clearly specify the types and values of contracts that must be approved by the board of regents and the types and values of contracts for which contracting authority is delegated by the board to the chief executive officer and by the chief executive officer to other officers and employees of the institution.  An officer or employee may not execute a document for the board unless the officer or employee has authority to act for the board and the authority is exercised in compliance with applicable conditions and restrictions.(f)  An institution of higher education may not enter into a contract with a value of more than $1 million, including any amendment, extension, or renewal of the contract that increases the value of the original contract to more than $1 million, unless the institution's board of regents approves the contract, expressly delegates authority to exceed that amount, or expressly adopts an exception for that contract.  The board must approve any amendment, extension, or renewal of a contract with a value that exceeds 25 percent of the value of the original contract approved by the board unless the authority to exceed the approved amount is expressly delegated by the board or an exception is expressly adopted by the board for that contract.(g)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education shall adopt standards for internal audits conducted by the institution to provide a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the institution's risk management, control, and governance processes related to contracts and to require risk-based testing of contract administration.  The internal auditor must have full and unrestricted access to all institutional property, personnel, and records.  An internal auditor must report directly to the board of regents in accordance with Chapter 2102, Government Code.(h)  The chief auditor of an institution of higher education shall annually assess whether the institution has adopted the rules and policies required by this section and shall submit a report of findings to the state auditor.  In auditing the purchase of goods and services by the institution, the state auditor shall determine whether an institution has adopted the required rules and policies.(i)  If the state auditor determines that an institution of higher education has failed to adopt the required rules and policies, the auditor shall report that failure to the legislature and to the institution's board of regents and shall, in consultation with the institution, adopt a remediation plan to bring the institution into compliance.  If the institution fails to comply within the time established by the state auditor, the auditor shall find the institution to be in noncompliance and report that finding to the legislature and comptroller.(j)  In accordance with a schedule adopted by the state auditor in consultation with the comptroller, the authority of an institution of higher education to acquire goods and services as provided by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 is suspended if the institution fails to comply with the remediation plan under Subsection (i) within the time established by the state auditor.  As a result of the suspension, the laws, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code, governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies from which the institution is otherwise exempt, shall apply to the institution's acquisition of goods and services.
Sec. 51.934.  ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, OR PLEDGE OF COMPENSATION.  (a)  In this section, "employee" means any person employed by an institution of higher education in an executive, administrative, or clerical capacity or as a professor or instructor or in any similar capacity.(b)  An employee's assignment, pledge, or transfer, as security for indebtedness, of any interest in or part of the employee's salary or wages then due or that may become due under an existing contract of employment is enforceable only:(1)  if, before or at the time of execution, delivery, or acceptance of an assignment, pledge, or transfer, written approval is obtained in accordance with the policy of the employing institution;  and(2)  to the extent that the indebtedness it secures is a valid and enforceable obligation.(c)  An institution of higher education shall honor an assignment, pledge, or transfer fulfilling the conditions of Subsection (b) without incurring any liability to the employee executing the assignment, pledge, or transfer.  Payment to any assignee, pledgee, or transferee in accordance with the terms of the instrument is payment to or for the account of the assignor, pledgor, or transferor.  An assignment, pledge, or transfer is enforceable only to the extent of salary due or that may become due during continuation of the assignor's employment as an employee of the institution.(d)  Venue for any suit against the employer of an employee to enforce an assignment, pledge, or transfer of salary is in the county where the employing institution is located.
Sec. 51.9355.  ASSISTANCE RELATING TO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS, FINANCIAL AID, AND TESTING.  (a)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution shall establish an office at the institution to assist applicants, potential applicants, school counselors at the high school level, and other interested persons requesting assistance relating to:(1)  applying for admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution;(2)  applying for financial aid offered by or through the institution or by an office or agency of this state or the United States for attendance as an undergraduate student at the institution;(3)  registering for an examination to be taken in connection with admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution; or(4)  registering for an examination that may be taken to receive undergraduate course credit at the institution or to determine the skill or placement level of an applicant to or student enrolled in a bachelor's degree program at the institution.(b)  The office may be operated in connection with the admissions office or another existing office of the institution.(c)  This section does not require an institution to assist a person in preparing to take an examination.(d)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9356.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS WHO ARE OR WERE IN FOSTER CARE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003. (b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who are or were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.  To the extent allowed by state or federal law, the institution shall identify those students from information provided to the institution in admission or financial aid applications or other available resources.(c)  Each semester or other academic term, an institution of higher education shall provide to the institution's liaison officer the names of and information regarding the students described by Subsection (b).(d)  The liaison officer shall provide to the students described by Subsection (b) information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution and any other relevant information to assist the students.(e)  The liaison officer may participate in any training that enables the officer to carry out the officer's duties and coordinate with liaison officers at other educational institutions.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall publicize, including through the institution's Internet website, social media, electronic mail, or other means of communication used by the institution:(1)  the name of and contact information for the institution's liaison officer; and(2)  information regarding support services and other resources available at the institution to the students described by Subsection (b).
Sec. 51.9357.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST CERTAIN STUDENTS WHO ARE PARENTS; REPORT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age.  The liaison officer shall provide to the students information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  parenting and child care resources;(3)  employment assistance;(4)  transportation assistance;(5)  student academic success strategies; and(6)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  Not later than May 1 of each academic year, an institution of higher education shall submit to the coordinating board a report that contains the following information regarding students enrolled at the institution for the current academic year who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age:(1)  the number of those students;(2)  demographic data, including age, race, sex, and ethnicity;(3)  academic data, including full-time or part-time enrollment status and graduation, transfer, and withdrawal rates; and(4)  other data as prescribed by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section, including rules to ensure compliance with federal law regarding confidentiality of student medical or educational information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.), the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.
Sec. 51.9358.  DESIGNATION OF SUPPORT SERVICES LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution. The liaison officer shall provide to the students comprehensive information regarding support services and other resources available to the students, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  public benefit program case management assistance and counseling;(3)  parenting and child care resources;(4)  employment assistance;(5)  financial counseling and tax preparation assistance;(6)  transportation assistance;(7)  student academic success strategies; and(8)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  An institution of higher education may designate under Subsection (b) the same employee to act as liaison officer as the employee designated under Section 51.9356 to act as liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.
Sec. 51.936.  HAZING.  (a)  Subchapter F, Chapter 37, applies to a postsecondary educational institution under this section in the same manner as that subchapter applies to a public or private high school.(b)  For purposes of this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means:(1)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003;(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(3)  a private postsecondary educational institution as defined by Section 61.302.(c)  Not later than the 14th day before the first class day of each fall or spring semester, each postsecondary educational institution shall distribute to each student enrolled at the institution:(1)  a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37; and(2)  a copy of, or an electronic link to a copy of, the report required under Subsection (c-1).(c-1)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and post in a prominent location on the institution's Internet website a report on hazing committed on or off campus by an organization registered with or recognized by the institution.  The report:(1)  must include information regarding each disciplinary action taken by the institution against an organization for hazing, and each conviction of hazing under Section 37.153 by an organization, during the three years preceding the date on which the report is issued or updated, including:(A)  the name of the organization disciplined or convicted;(B)  the date on which the incident occurred or the citation was issued, if applicable;(C)  the date on which the institution's investigation into the incident, if any, was initiated;(D)  a general description of:(i)  the incident;(ii)  the violations of the institution's code of conduct or the criminal charges, as applicable;(iii)  the findings of the institution or court; and(iv)  any sanctions imposed by the institution, or any fines imposed by the court, on the organization; and(E)  the date on which the institution's disciplinary process was resolved or on which the conviction became final;(2)  must be updated to include information regarding each disciplinary process or conviction not later than the 30th day after the date on which the disciplinary process is resolved or the conviction becomes final, as applicable; and(3)  may not include personally identifiable student information and must comply with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g).(c-2)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall provide to each student who attends the institution's student orientation a notice regarding the nature and availability of the report required under Subsection (c-1), including the report's Internet website address.(d)  If the institution publishes a general catalogue, student handbook, or similar publication, it shall publish a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37, in each edition of the publication.(e)  Section 1.001(a) does not limit the application of this section to postsecondary educational institutions supported in whole or in part by state tax funds.
Sec. 51.9361.  RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS FOR MEMBERS AND ADVISORS OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advisor" means a person who:(A)  serves in an advisory capacity to a student organization to provide guidance to the organization and its members;(B)  is older than 21 years of age; and(C)  is not a student of the postsecondary educational institution at which the student organization is registered.(2)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include a medical and dental unit or other agency of higher education as those terms are defined by that section; and(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include:(i)  a health-related institution; or(ii)  an institution that offers only upper-division, graduate-level, or professional courses.(b)  This section applies only to a student organization that is registered at a postsecondary educational institution and that is composed mostly of students enrolled at the institution.  Notwithstanding Section 1.001(a), this section applies to each postsecondary educational institution at which is registered one or more student organizations.(c)  At least once during each academic year, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide a risk management program for members of student organizations registered at the institution.  Any member of a student organization who is not otherwise required to attend may attend the program.(d)  Unless a postsecondary educational institution requires each student organization registered at the institution to have representatives of the organization attend a program under this section, the institution shall adopt a policy that specifies one or more of those student organizations or types of student organizations that are required to have representatives attend.  The selection of student organizations or types of student organizations under the policy must be based on the institution's determination that those organizations or types of organizations could particularly benefit from risk management guidance.  Each advisor who has not previously attended a program under this section and each person serving in a designated officer position of a student organization that is required to have representatives attend a program under this section shall attend the program.  An institution may allow an advisor, other than a faculty or staff member of the institution, to satisfy the attendance requirements prescribed by this subsection through completion of an appropriate computer-based risk assessment program.(e)  For purposes of Subsection (d), the institution may designate not more than four officer positions of a student organization, such as the president, membership chair, risk management chair, social chair, or pledge class or new member chair.  If a student organization does not have an officer position described by this subsection or if an officer position described by Subsection (d) is vacant, the institution shall, to the extent practicable, identify and designate an equivalent officer position, and the person serving in that officer position shall attend the program.(f)  Each advisor or officer required by Subsection (d) to attend a program shall report on the program's contents at a meeting of the full membership of the student organization the advisor or officer represented at the program.(g)  A program under this section may address any issue determined appropriate by the postsecondary educational institution and must address:(1)  possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs, including penalties that may be imposed for possession or use;(2)  hazing;(3)  sexual abuse and harassment;(4)  fire and other safety issues, including the possession and use of a firearm or other weapon or of an explosive device;(5)  travel to a destination outside the area in which the institution is located;(6)  behavior at parties and other events held by a student organization;(7)  adoption by a student organization of a risk management policy; and(8)  issues regarding persons with disabilities, including a review of applicable requirements of federal and state law, and any related policies of the institution, for providing reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of students with disabilities, including access to the activities of the student organization.(h)  A postsecondary educational institution shall provide notice of a program under this section to student organizations in the manner determined by the institution.(i)  A postsecondary educational institution shall take attendance at a program provided under this section in the manner determined appropriate by the institution and may, as provided by a policy adopted by the institution, impose reasonable sanctions on a person who is required to attend the program and fails to attend.  The institution shall, until at least the third anniversary of the date of the program, maintain in an appropriate location at the institution a record of that attendance and of notice provided under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.9362.  OVERDOSE AWARENESS TRAINING FOR RESIDENTIAL ADVISORS AND STUDENT ORGANIZATION OFFICERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Public or private institution of higher education" includes an "institution of higher education" and a "private or independent institution of higher education," as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(2)  "Residential advisor" means a student who is employed by a public or private institution of higher education to serve in an advisory capacity for students living in a residential facility.(3)  "Residential facility" means a residence used exclusively for housing or boarding students or faculty of a public or private institution of higher education.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at a public or private institution of higher education and that:(A)  is registered with the institution;(B)  receives student organization resource fee revenues or other funding from the institution; or(C)  is otherwise recognized as a student organization by the institution.(b)  A public or private institution of higher education that imposes any mandatory training requirements on residential advisors or officers of student organizations must ensure that overdose awareness and appropriate response training is included with that training.
Sec. 51.9364.  CERTAIN NOTATIONS REQUIRED ON STUDENT TRANSCRIPTS.  (a)  In this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  If a student is ineligible to reenroll in a postsecondary educational institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript a notation stating that the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.(c)  If a student withdraws from a postsecondary educational institution pending disciplinary charges that may result in the student becoming ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution may not end the disciplinary process until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility, including, if applicable, a determination of whether the student will be ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.  If, as a result of the disciplinary process, the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript the notation required under Subsection (b).(d)  On request by the student, a postsecondary educational institution may remove from a student's transcript a notation required under this section if:(1)  the student is eligible to reenroll in the institution; or(2)  the institution determines that good cause exists to remove the notation.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.937.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY FOR VOLUNTEERS.  (a)  A volunteer who is serving as a direct service volunteer for an institution of higher education is immune from civil liability for any act that:(1)  is incident to or within the scope of the duties of the volunteer's position;  and(2)  involves the exercise of judgment or discretion on the part of the volunteer.(b)  This section does not apply to the operation, use, or maintenance of a motor vehicle.(c)  This section does not limit the liability of a person for intentional misconduct or gross negligence.(d)  In this section, "volunteer" means a person providing services for or on behalf of an institution of higher education, on the premises of the institution or at an activity related to or sponsored by the institution on or off of the property of the institution, who does not receive compensation in excess of reimbursement for expenses.
Sec. 51.940.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program must allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.  The institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee sufficient to cover the cost of implementation and administration of this program.(d)  An institution of higher education may not administer or sponsor a debit card program for students of the institution that does not conform to this section.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.942.  FACULTY TENURE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Institution of higher education" means a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(3)  "Neglect of duty" means continuing or repeated substantial neglect of professional responsibilities.(4)  "Tenure" means the entitlement of a faculty member of an institution of higher education to continue in the faculty member's academic position unless dismissed by the institution for good cause in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the institution under Subsection (c-1). (b)  Only an institution of higher education's governing board, on the recommendation of the institution's chief executive officer and the university system's chancellor, if applicable, may grant tenure.(c)  The granting of tenure may not be construed to create a property interest in any attribute of a faculty position beyond a faculty member's continuing employment, including his or her regular annual salary and any privileges incident to his or her status as a tenured professor.(c-1)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt policies and procedures regarding tenure.  The policies and procedures must:(1)  address the granting of tenure;(2)  allow for the dismissal of a tenured faculty member at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process, on a determination that:(A)  the faculty member has:(i)  exhibited professional incompetence;(ii)  continually or repeatedly failed to perform duties or meet professional responsibilities of the faculty member's position;(iii)  failed to successfully complete any post-tenure review professional development program;(iv)  engaged in conduct involving moral turpitude that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities;(v)  violated laws or university system or institution policies substantially related to the performance of the faculty member's duties;(vi)  been convicted of a crime affecting the fitness of the faculty member to engage in teaching, research, service, outreach, or administration;(vii)  engaged in unprofessional conduct that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities; or(viii)  falsified the faculty member's academic credentials;(B)  there is actual financial exigency or the phasing out of the institution's programs requiring elimination of the faculty member's position; or(C)  there is other good cause as defined in the institution's policies; and(3)  provide for a periodic performance evaluation process for all tenured faculty at the institution.(c-2)  The governing board may design its policies and procedures to fit the institution's particular educational mission, traditions, resources, and circumstances relevant to the institution's character, role, and scope, in addition to other relevant factors determined by the governing board in the policies and procedures adopted under this section.  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the institution's faculty before adopting any policies and procedures under this section.  The advice and comment from the faculty on the performance evaluation of tenured faculty shall be given the utmost consideration by the governing board.(c-3)  In addition to any other provisions adopted by the governing board, the policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) must include provisions providing that:(1)  each tenured faculty member at the institution be subject to a comprehensive performance evaluation process conducted no more often than once every year, but no less often than once every six years, after the date the faculty member was granted tenure or received an academic promotion at the institution;(2)  the comprehensive performance evaluation be based on the professional responsibilities of the faculty member, in teaching, research, service, patient care, and administration, and include peer review of the faculty member;(3)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process be directed toward the professional development of the faculty member;(4)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process incorporate commonly recognized academic due process rights, including notice of the manner and scope of the comprehensive performance evaluation, the opportunity to provide documentation during the comprehensive performance evaluation process, and, before a faculty member may be subject to disciplinary action on the basis of a comprehensive performance evaluation conducted under this subsection, notice of specific charges and an opportunity for hearing on those charges;(5)  a faculty member be subject to revocation of tenure or other appropriate disciplinary action if, during the comprehensive performance evaluation, incompetency, neglect of duty, or other good cause is determined to be present; and(6)  for a faculty member who receives an unsatisfactory rating in any area of any evaluation conducted under this section, the evaluation process provide for a short-term development plan that includes performance benchmarks for returning to satisfactory performance.(c-4)  The policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) may include provisions that authorize the summary dismissal of a tenured faculty member based on a finding that the faculty member committed serious misconduct, as defined by the institution's policies, at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process in accordance with this subsection.  The policies and procedures for summary dismissal must ensure that the institution provides the faculty member with appropriate due process, including:(1)  before summarily dismissing the faculty member, providing the faculty member:(A)  written notice of the allegations against the faculty member together with an explanation of the evidence supporting dismissal; and(B)  an opportunity for the faculty member to respond to the allegations in a hearing with a designated administrator;(2)  requiring the designated administrator to consider the faculty member's response under Subdivision (1)(B) and make a written determination of whether the institution will proceed with the summary dismissal of the faculty member;(3)  promptly providing to the faculty member a copy of the designated administrator's written determination under Subdivision (2) that:(A)  clearly indicates whether the faculty member will be subject to summary dismissal; and(B)  either:(i)  includes the effective date of the dismissal and information regarding the faculty member's opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal, if the designated administrator's decision is in favor of summary dismissal; or(ii)  states that the faculty member is not subject to summary dismissal, if the designated administrator's decision is against summary dismissal; and(4)  following a designated administrator's written determination to summarily dismiss a faculty member, providing the faculty member with the opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal in accordance with the institution's policies and procedures.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 923 (S.B. 18), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2023.(e)  A governing board may not waive the evaluation process for any faculty member granted tenure at an institution.(f)  A governing board may not award tenure to an administrator in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(g)  Each governing board shall file a copy of the policies and procedures adopted under this section, and any amendments to such polices and procedures, with the coordinating board on or before September 1 of each year.
Sec. 51.943.  RENEWAL OF FACULTY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Contract" means an agreement between an institution of higher education or its authorized agent and a faculty member that establishes the terms of the faculty member's employment, including the faculty member's responsibilities and salary, for an academic year.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed full time by an institution of higher education as a member of the faculty whose primary duties include teaching or research.  The term does not include:(A)  a person employed in the classified personnel system of the institution or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system;(B)  a person who holds faculty rank but who spends a majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (c), an institution of higher education that determines it is in its best interest to reappoint a faculty member for the next academic year shall offer the faculty member a written contract for that academic year not later than 30 days before the first day of the academic year.(c)  For the purposes of this section, an institution of higher education is not required to provide an annual contract to tenure or tenure-track faculty, but must provide tenure and tenure-track faculty with any written notification required in the institution's tenure policy of a change in a term of employment according to the policies of the institution, but no later than the 30th day prior to the change.(d)  If the institution of higher education is unable to comply with Subsection (b), the institution shall:(1)  provide the faculty member with written notification that the institution is unable to comply with Subsection (b);(2)  include in the written notification reasons for its inability to comply with Subsection (b);  and(3)  specify in the written notification a time by which it will offer a written contract to the faculty member for the applicable academic year.(e)  If the institution does not offer the faculty member a written contract before the 61st day after the first day of the academic year and the institution retains the faculty member for that academic year without a written contract, the institution must retain the faculty member for that academic year under terms and conditions, including terms governing the faculty member's compensation, that are at least as favorable to the faculty member's employment for the preceding academic year, unless the institution and the faculty member subsequently enter into a different written contract.(f)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from entering into a contract with a faculty member for a period longer than an academic year.(g)  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to provide a faculty member who does not hold tenure additional rights, privileges, or remedies or to provide an expectation of continued employment beyond the period of a faculty member's current contract.
Sec. 51.945.  STUDENT PARTICIPATION IN SELECTION OF FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall develop and implement policies that provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to appear before any committee or other entity that is determining whether a food service provider should be selected or retained by the institution.  The policies shall provide the students with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of a food service provider and the students' recommendations for qualifications of food service providers.(b)  A contract between an institution of higher education and a food service provider must require the food service provider to periodically hold meetings or forums to provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of the food service provider.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Food service provider" means a person who contracts with the institution to provide food or beverage service at any location on the premises of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.946.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The governing board of a private or independent institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program may allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.(d)  The private or independent institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee for the implementation and administration of the program.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.9461.  CHARGES AND FEES FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a payment of tuition, a fee, or another charge made by or on behalf of a student, including a person admitted but not yet enrolled, of a private or independent institution of higher education if the payment is made or authorized in person, by mail, by telephone call, or through the Internet by means of:(1)  an electronic funds transfer; or(2)  a credit card.(c)  A private or independent institution of higher education may charge a fee or other amount in connection with a payment to which this section applies, in addition to the amount of the tuition, fee, or other charge being paid, including:(1)  a discount, convenience, or service charge for the transaction; or(2)  a service charge in connection with a payment transaction that is dishonored or refused for lack of funds or insufficient funds.(d)  A fee or other charge under this section must be in an amount reasonable and necessary to reimburse the institution for the expense incurred by the institution in processing and handling the payment or payment transaction.(e)  Before accepting a payment by credit card, the institution shall notify the student or other person making the payment of any fee to be charged under this section.
Sec. 51.947.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  An employee of an institution of higher education may authorize a deduction each pay period from the employee's salary or wage payment for:(1)  a contribution to an institution of higher education;  or(2)  a charitable contribution to a nonprofit organization the purpose of which is to support the programs of an institution of higher education.(b)  To be eligible to receive charitable contributions under this section, a nonprofit organization must comply with the rules adopted under Section 2255.001, Government Code, by the institution of higher education the organization supports.(c)  An institution of higher education shall establish procedures to enable an employee of the institution to authorize a deduction under this section.(d)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.948.  RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACTS WITH ADMINISTRATORS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an employment contract with an administrator that is to be paid in whole or in part from appropriated funds only if, before the date the contract is executed, the governing board determines that the contract is in the best interest of the institution.(b)  A contract entered into by a governing board under this section may not:(1)  provide for employment for more than three years;(2)  allow for severance or other payments on the termination of the contract to exceed an amount equal to the discounted net present cash value of the contract on termination at a market interest rate agreed upon in the contract;(3)  allow for development leave that is inconsistent with Section 51.105;  or(4)  award tenure in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(c)  An institution of higher education may not pay a salary to a person who is reassigned from an administrative position to a faculty or other position at the institution that exceeds the salary of other persons with similar qualifications performing similar duties.(d)  An institution of higher education must require an administrator who receives development leave to:(1)  return to work at the institution for an amount of time equal to the amount of time the administrator received development leave;  or(2)  repay the institution for all the costs of the development leave, including the amount of the administrator's salary, if any, paid during the leave.(e)  A record that pertains to a contract between an institution and an administrator, including terms relating to an amount of money the institution has paid or agreed to pay or the extension of any monetary or other consideration to an administrator in connection with the settlement, compromise, or other resolution of any difference between the institution or governing body and a current or former administrator, is public information and may not be withheld from public disclosure.(f)  Notwithstanding Subsection (b)(3), the governing board of an institution may grant development leave at the faculty member's full regular salary for one year to a faculty member who has held an administrative position at the institution for more than four years.(g)  In this section:(1)  "Administrator" means a person who has significant administrative duties relating to the operation of the institution, including the operation of a department, college, program, or other subdivision of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Contract" includes a letter of agreement or letter of understanding.
Sec. 51.950.  POLICY REGULATING STUDENT TRAVEL.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt a policy regulating travel that is undertaken by one or more students presently enrolled at the institution to reach an activity or event that is located more than 25 miles from the institution that is organized and sponsored by the institution and that is:(1)  funded by the institution, and the travel is undertaken using a vehicle owned or leased by the institution;  or(2)  required by a student organization registered at the institution.(c)  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the faculty and students of the institution before adopting any policy under this section.(d)  The policy must contain provisions that address:(1)  different modes of travel likely to be used by students;  and(2)  safety issues related to student travel, including:(A)  use of seat belts or other safety devices;(B)  passenger capacity;  and(C)  for the person providing transportation services:(i)  qualifications and training required to operate that particular mode of travel;  and(ii)  fatigue at the time of travel.(e)  The governing board shall make the policy available to the public by publishing the policy in the institution's catalog and by any other method the board considers appropriate.(f)  The governing board shall file a copy of the policy adopted under this section, and any amendments to that policy, with the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(g)  This section does not create a claim or cause of action against an institution of higher education beyond a claim or cause of action authorized on the effective date of the Act that enacted this section by Chapter 101, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
Sec. 51.951.  CONFIDENTIALITY OF CERTAIN INFORMATION RELATED TO PURCHASE OR SALE OF REAL ESTATE.  (a)  Information related to the location, purchase price, or sale price of real property purchased or sold by or for an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, is confidential and exempt from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, until a deed for the property is executed.  Information that is confidential and exempted from disclosure under this subsection includes an appraisal, completed report, evaluation, investigation conducted for the purpose of locating or determining the purchase or sale price of the property, or any report prepared in anticipation of purchasing or selling real property.(b)  Information that is confidential and excluded from disclosure under Subsection (a) is not subject to a subpoena directed to an institution of higher education, its governing board, or any officer, agent, or employee of an institution of higher education.
Sec. 51.952.  STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE.  (a)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may require a student enrolled at a medical and dental unit to have in effect during the calendar year of enrollment a health insurance policy for health care services received by the student.(b)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit shall determine the minimum coverage standards for health insurance required under this section.(c)  If the student agrees in writing, the medical and dental unit shall provide a reasonable estimate of the cost of the health insurance coverage within the student's cost of education for financial aid purposes.(d)  If a governing board of a medical and dental unit requires health insurance coverage for students under Subsection (a), a student may be provisionally enrolled at the medical and dental unit for one academic session without the coverage in order to allow the student time to obtain the coverage.(e)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may adopt such other rules and regulations as it determines necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.(f)  In this section, "governing board" and "medical and dental unit" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.953.  CERTAIN REVENUE RECEIVED FROM STUDENT HEALTH CENTER SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health benefit plan" means any health benefit plan regulated under the Insurance Code, including:(A)  an individual or group health insurance policy; or(B)  an evidence of coverage issued by a health maintenance organization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Amounts received by an institution of higher education from a health benefit plan issuer as a result of a claim filed with the issuer by or on behalf of the institution's student health center are institutional funds under Section 51.009 and may be used only for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of the student health center or to increase or enhance the services offered by the student health center.  It is the intent of the legislature that those amounts be in addition to other amounts of money allocated to the student health center and those other amounts not be reduced.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF CONTRACTED RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with, or that is conducted under a grant awarded by and pursuant to a written agreement with, an individual or entity other than the institution conducting the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with or a grant from an individual or entity, other than the institution conducting the research, for the purpose of the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Sec. 51.955.  PROHIBITED STATE AGENCY ACTIONS RELATED TO DISCLOSURE OF PUBLICLY FUNDED RESEARCH.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A state agency that expends appropriated funds may not:(1)  enter into a research contract with an institution of higher education if that contract contains a provision precluding public disclosure of any final data generated or produced in the course of executing the contract unless the agency reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party; or(2)  adopt a rule that is based on research conducted under a contract entered into with an institution of higher education unless the agency:(A)  has made the results of the research and all data supporting the research publicly available; or(B)  reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party.(c)  Subsection (b)(1) does not apply to a research contract between an institution of higher education and the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas.(d)  A response to a request for information regarding research described by Subsection (b) must be made in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.(e)  This section does not require the public disclosure of personal identifying information or any other information the disclosure of which is otherwise prohibited by law.
Sec. 51.956.  POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR RESEARCH SECURITY.  (a)  In this section, "governing board," "institution of higher education," and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a policy framework that promotes secure academic research at the institution while mitigating the risk of foreign espionage and interference. The governing board of a university system must establish a separate policy framework for each institution of higher education under the governing board's management and control.(c)  The policy framework must address:(1)  achieving the highest level of compliance with applicable ethical, legal, regulatory, contractual, and system standards and requirements for securing and protecting the institution's research portfolios;(2)  promoting within the institution an organizational culture of compliance with federal requirements to ensure the institution maintains eligibility for federal funding; and(3)  designating a person to serve as a research security officer responsible for maintaining classified information, maintaining controlled unclassified information, conducting foreign influence reporting, and addressing other issues at the institution associated with the goals of the policy framework.(d)  For purposes of designating a person to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3), the governing board of a university system may designate a person to serve in an institutional or system-wide capacity.(e)  A person designated to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3) shall attend the annual academic security and counter exploitation program seminar offered by Texas A&M University.
Sec. 51.960.  GRIEVANCE RIGHTS ON CERTAIN PERSONNEL ISSUES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Faculty member" means a person employed full-time by an institution of higher education as a member of the institution's faculty, including professional librarians, whose duties include teaching, research, administration, or the performance of professional services.  The term does not include a person who holds faculty rank but who spends the majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A faculty member at an institution of higher education has a right to present a grievance, in person, to a member of the institution's administration designated by the governing board of the institution on an issue related to the nonrenewal or termination of the faculty member's employment at the institution.(c)  An institution may not, by contract, policy, or procedure, restrict a faculty member's right to present a grievance under this section.  An institution may adopt a method for presenting, reviewing, and acting on a grievance filed under this section.
Sec. 51.961.  LEAVE PROVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR COMPONENT INSTITUTION OF SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Leave" includes vacation leave, sick leave, and holidays.(b)  The governing board of a university system may adopt a comprehensive leave policy that applies to employees of the university system or any component institution of the system.(c)  A policy adopted under this section may combine vacation, sick, and holiday leave into a paid leave system that does not distinguish or separate the types of leave to be awarded and may award leave in an amount determined by the governing board to be appropriate and cost-effective.(d)  Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, do not apply to employees covered by a policy adopted under this section.  The policy must include provisions addressing the subject matter of each subchapter of Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, and the intended effect of the policy on the rights, duties, and responsibilities of employees and the employing entity under those subchapters.(e)  A policy adopted under this section must include provisions for:(1)  payment for accrued leave to:(A)  the estates or heirs of deceased employees;(B)  employees separating from the employing entity;  and(C)  contributing members of state retirement systems who retire;  and(2)  awards of accrued leave to employees separating from the employing entity who are to be employed by other state agencies or institutions of higher education.(f)  A policy authorized by this section may include other matters as determined relevant and appropriate by the governing board.(g)  A policy authorized by this section must be adopted by a governing board in an open meeting of the board.(h)  Before implementing a policy adopted under this section, the governing board shall make reasonable efforts to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the office of the state auditor, the Employees Retirement System of Texas, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board concerning awards of accrued leave for the purposes of retirement and other issues of concern related to the implementation of the policy.(i)  On or after September 15, 2005, the governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a leave policy as provided by this section for employees of the institution.
Sec. 51.9611.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a university system, or of an institution of higher education that is not a component institution of a university system, may authorize employees of the system or institution, as applicable, to elect a payroll deduction for any purpose that the governing board determines serves a public purpose and benefits employees.  The board may adopt policies and procedures governing payroll deductions under this section.  A payroll deduction under this section is in addition to payroll deductions authorized by other law.(c)  A payroll deduction under this section must be at the written request of the employee, and the request must state the amount to be deducted and the entity to which the deducted amount is to be transferred.  A payroll deduction is in effect until revoked in writing by the employee, but the policies and procedures of the university system or institution of higher education, as applicable, may provide for enrollment periods.(d)  A university system or institution of higher education may collect an administrative fee to cover the costs of making a deduction.(e)  This section does not authorize a payroll deduction for dues or membership fees payable to a labor union or employees association.
Sec. 51.962.  MERIT SALARY INCREASES.  (a)  An institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 may grant merit salary increases, including one-time merit payments, to employees described by this section.(b)  A merit salary increase made under this section is compensation for purposes of Chapter 659, Government Code, and salary and wages and member compensation for purposes of Title 8, Government Code.(c)  An institution of higher education may pay merit salary increases under this section from any funds.(d)  Before awarding a merit salary increase under this section, an institution of higher education must adopt criteria for the granting of merit salary increases.(e)  To be eligible for a merit salary increase under this section, an employee must have been employed by the institution of higher education for the six months immediately preceding the effective date of the increase and at least six months must have elapsed since the employee's last merit salary increase.(f)  This subsection applies to an employee employed by the institution of higher education for more than six months.  The requirement that six months elapse between merit salary increases prescribed by Subsection (e) does not apply to a one-time merit payment if the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education determines in writing that the one-time merit payment is made in relation to the employee's performance during a natural disaster or other extraordinary circumstance.
Sec. 51.9645.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN ACTIVITIES BY FINANCIAL AID EMPLOYEES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Student loan" means a loan for which the loan agreement requires that all or part of the loan proceeds be used to assist a person in attending an institution of higher education or other postsecondary institution.(3)  "Student loan lender" means a person whose primary business is:(A)  making, brokering, arranging, or accepting applications for student loans; or(B)  a combination of activities described by Paragraph (A).(b)  A person employed by an institution of higher education in the financial aid office of the institution may not:(1)  own stock or hold another ownership interest in a student loan lender, other than through ownership of shares in a publicly traded mutual fund or similar investment vehicle in which the person does not exercise any discretion regarding the investment of the assets of the fund or other investment vehicle; or(2)  solicit or accept any gift from a student loan lender.(c)  A person who violates this section is subject to dismissal or other appropriate disciplinary action.
Sec. 51.968.  UNDERGRADUATE COURSE CREDIT FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS COMPLETING POSTSECONDARY-LEVEL PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advanced Placement examination" means an examination administered through the Advanced Placement Program.(2)  "CLEP examination" means an examination administered through the College-Level Examination Program.(3)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, that offers freshman-level courses.(5)  "International Baccalaureate Diploma Program" means the curriculum and examinations leading to an International Baccalaureate diploma awarded by the International Baccalaureate Organization.(b)  Each institution of higher education that offers freshman-level courses shall adopt and implement a policy to grant undergraduate course credit to entering freshman students who have:(1)  successfully completed the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program;(2)  achieved required scores on one or more examinations in the Advanced Placement Program or the College-Level Examination Program; or(3)  successfully completed one or more dual credit courses.(c)  In the policy, the institution shall:(1)  establish the institution's conditions for granting course credit, including the minimum required scores on CLEP examinations, Advanced Placement examinations, and examinations for courses constituting the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program; and(2)  based on the correlations identified under Subsection (f), identify the specific course credit or other academic requirements of the institution, including the number of semester credit hours or other course credit, that the institution will grant to a student who:(A)  successfully completes the diploma program;(B)  achieves required scores on CLEP examinations or Advanced Placement examinations; or(C)  successfully completes a dual credit course.(c-1)  In establishing the minimum required score on an Advanced Placement examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score of more than three unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(c-2)  In establishing the minimum required score on a CLEP examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score higher than the minimum score recommended by the American Council on Education for granting course credit for that examination unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate that a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(d)  The policy adopted by an institution of higher education under Subsection (b) must provide that the institution may grant undergraduate course credit for a dual credit course only if the course is:(1)  in the core curriculum of the institution of higher education that offered the course;(2)  a career and technical education course; or(3)  a foreign language course.(d-1)  Subsection (d) does not apply to a dual credit course completed by a student as part of the early college education program established under Section 29.908 or any other early college program that assists a student in earning a certificate or an associate degree while in high school.(d-2)  The coordinating board, in coordination with the Texas Education Agency, shall adopt rules to implement Subsections (d) and (d-1).  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code, and consult with relevant stakeholders.(e)  On request of an applicant for admission as an entering freshman, an institution of higher education, based on information provided by the applicant, shall determine and notify the applicant regarding:(1)  the amount and type of any course credit that would be granted to the applicant under the policy; and(2)  any other academic requirement that the applicant would satisfy under the policy.(f)  The coordinating board, in consultation with the Texas Education Agency, shall:(1)  identify correlations between the subject matter and content of courses offered by each institution of higher education and the subject matter and content of courses and examinations in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program, the Advanced Placement Program, and the College-Level Examination Program; and(2)  make that information available to the public on the coordinating board's Internet website.(g)  Except as otherwise provided by this subsection, an institution of higher education shall grant at least 24 semester credit hours or equivalent course credit in appropriate subject areas to an entering freshman student for successful completion of the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program.  The institution may grant fewer than 24 semester credit hours if the student received a score of less than four on an examination administered as part of the diploma program.  The institution may grant fewer credit hours only with respect to courses that are substantially related to the subject of that examination.
Sec. 51.9685.  REQUIRED FILING OF DEGREE PLAN.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Degree plan" means a statement of the course of study requirements that an undergraduate student at an institution of higher education must complete in order to be awarded an associate or bachelor's degree from the institution.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as otherwise provided by Subsection (c), each student enrolled in an associate or bachelor's degree program at an institution of higher education shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of the semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 30 or more semester credit hours for coursework successfully completed by the student, including transfer courses, international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, and any other course for which the institution the student attends has awarded the student college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination.(c)  A student to whom Subsection (b) applies who begins the student's first semester or term at an institution of higher education with 30 or more semester credit hours of course credit for courses described by Subsection (b) shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of that semester or term.(c-1)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 12, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 9, eff. June 14, 2019. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a course for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008 at a public junior college and to whom Subsection (b) or (c-1) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the college not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the college with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the college. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a dual credit course at an institution of higher education and to whom Subsection (b) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the institution not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the institution with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the institution.(d)  An institution of higher education shall provide to students to whom this section applies information regarding the degree plan filing requirement under this section and options for consulting with an academic advisor for that purpose, which may include consultation through electronic communication.(e)  At each registration for a semester or term, a student who is required to have filed a degree plan under this section before that semester or term shall verify to the institution that:(1)  the student has filed a degree plan with the institution; and(2)  the courses for which the student is registering are consistent with that degree plan.(f)  If a student to whom this section applies does not timely file a degree plan, the institution of higher education in which the student is enrolled shall notify the student that the degree plan is required by law and require the student to consult with an academic advisor for that purpose in accordance with the consulting options under Subsection (d) during the semester or term in which the student receives the notice.  The student may not obtain an official transcript from the institution until the student has filed a degree plan with the institution. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules requiring institutions of higher education to report to the board information regarding the filing of degree plans as required by this section. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 3 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules to ensure compliance with this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96851.  LEARNING OUTCOMES FOR UNDERGRADUATE COURSES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To foster a transparent student learning environment at institutions of higher education and to facilitate the universal articulation of undergraduate courses that are transferable for credit among all institutions of higher education, each institution of higher education shall identify, adopt, and make available for public inspection measurable learning outcomes for each undergraduate course offered by the institution other than:(1)  a course with a highly variable subject content that is tailored specifically to an individual student, such as an independent study or directed reading course; or(2)  a laboratory, practicum, or discussion section that is an intrinsic and required component of a lecture course.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt learning outcomes for a course under this section that are the same as or based on those identified for that course by the institution's recognized accrediting agency.(d)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt any rules the coordinating board considers appropriate for the administration of this section.
Sec. 51.96852.  RECOMMENDED COURSE SEQUENCES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall develop at least one recommended course sequence for each undergraduate certificate or degree program offered by the institution.  Each recommended course sequence must:(1)  identify all required lower-division courses for the applicable certificate or degree program;(2)  include for each course, if applicable:(A)  the course number or course equivalent under the common course numbering system approved by the coordinating board under Section 61.832; and(B)  the course equivalent in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(3)  be designed to enable a full-time student to obtain a certificate or degree, as applicable, within:(A)  for a 60-hour degree or certificate program, two years; or(B)  for a 120-hour degree program, four years; and(4)  include a specific sequence in which courses should be completed to ensure completion of the applicable program within the time frame described by Subdivision (3).(c)  Each institution of higher education shall:(1)  include the recommended course sequences developed under this section in the institution's course catalog and on the institution's Internet website; and(2)  submit the recommended course sequences developed under this section to the coordinating board as provided by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96853.  TRANSFER OF CREDIT FROM LOWER-DIVISION INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION; ARTICULATION AGREEMENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Articulation agreement" means a formal written agreement between a lower-division institution of higher education and a general academic teaching institution identifying courses offered by the lower-division institution that must be accepted for credit toward specific course requirements at the general academic teaching institution.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Lower-division institution of higher education" means a public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution may enter into an articulation agreement with a lower-division institution of higher education for a certificate or degree program for which students transferring from the lower-division institution to the general academic teaching institution receive transfer credit.(c)  An articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) on or after September 1, 2019, may use field of study curricula developed by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board under Section 61.823.(d)  A general academic teaching institution may extend an existing articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) to another lower-division institution of higher education with respect to the transfer of courses from that lower-division institution of higher education to the general academic teaching institution, on request by that lower-division institution of higher education.(e)  An articulation agreement established under this section may enable a transfer student to receive up to 60 semester credit hours for courses completed at the lower-division institution of higher education.(f)  A general academic teaching institution's participation in an articulation agreement under this section does not affect the institution's admissions policies.
Sec. 51.969.  ELIGIBILITY FOR SCHOLARSHIP; STATEMENT REQUIRED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person is not eligible to receive a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system if the person is related to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system, unless:(1)  the scholarship is granted by a private organization or third party not affiliated with the institution of higher education or university system;(2)  the scholarship is awarded exclusively on the basis of prior academic merit;(3)  the scholarship is an athletic scholarship; or(4)  the relationship is not within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity, as determined under Subchapter B, Chapter 573, Government Code.(c)  Before receiving a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system, a person must file a written statement with the institution or system indicating whether the person is related within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education and university system of the required statement and applicable rules.(e)  A person commits an offense if the person knowingly files a false statement under Subsection (c).(f)  An offense under Subsection (e) is a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.970.  INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL FOR BLIND AND VISUALLY IMPAIRED STUDENTS AND STUDENTS WITH DYSLEXIA.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Blind or visually impaired student" includes any student whose visual acuity is impaired to the extent that the student is unable to read the print in the standard instructional material used in a course in which the student is enrolled.(2)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(3)  "Dyslexia" means a condition of dyslexia considered to be a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. Section 12101 et seq.) or  Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. Section 794).(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Instructional material" means a printed textbook or other printed instructional material or a combination of a printed book and supplementary printed instructional material that:(A)  conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a student; and(B)  was published on or after January 1, 2004.(6)  "Special instructional material" means instructional material in Braille, large print, audio format, digital text, or any other medium or any apparatus that conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a blind or visually impaired student or a student with dyslexia.(b)  This section applies only to instructional material that is:(1)  written and published primarily for postsecondary instruction of students; and(2)  required or essential for a student's success in a course at an institution of higher education, as identified by the instructor of the course for which the instructional material will be used, in consultation with the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities and in accordance with rules adopted under Subsection (i)(1).(c)  To assist the institution in producing special instructional material, a publisher or manufacturer of instructional material assigned by an institution of higher education for use by students in connection with a course at the institution shall provide to the institution on the institution's request in accordance with this section a copy in an electronic format of the instructional material. The publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy not later than the 15th business day after the date of receipt of the request.(d)  A request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) must:(1)  certify that for each blind or visually impaired student or student with dyslexia who will use specialized instructional material based on the requested copy of the material in an electronic format for a course in which the student is enrolled at the institution, either the institution or the student has purchased a printed copy of the instructional material; and(2)  be signed by the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities.(e)  A publisher or manufacturer may require that a request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) include from each student for whom the institution is making the request a signed statement in which the student agrees:(1)  to use the requested electronic copy and related special instructional material only for the student's own educational purposes; and(2)  not to copy or otherwise distribute in a manner that violates 17 U.S.C.  Section 101 et seq. the requested electronic copy or the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based.(f)  Each electronic copy of instructional material must:(1)  be in a format that:(A)  except as provided by Subsection (g), contains all of the information that is in the instructional material, including any text, sidebar, table of contents, chapter headings, chapter subheadings, footnotes, index, glossary, and bibliography, and is approved by the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, and the institution of higher education as a format that will contain that material; and(B)  is compatible with commonly used Braille translation and speech synthesis software; and(2)  include any correction or revision available at the time the electronic copy is provided.(g)  If the publisher or manufacturer and the institution of higher education are not able to agree on a format as required by Subsection (f)(1)(A), the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy of the instructional material in a format that can be read by a word processing application and that contains as much of the material specified by that subsection as is practicable.(h)  The coordinating board may impose a reasonable administrative penalty, not to exceed $250 per violation, against a publisher or manufacturer that knowingly violates this section.  The coordinating board shall provide for a hearing to be held, in accordance with coordinating board rule, to determine whether a penalty is to be imposed and the amount of any penalty.  The coordinating board shall base the amount of any penalty on:(1)  the seriousness of the violation;(2)  any history of a previous violation;(3)  the amount necessary to deter a future violation;(4)  any effort to correct the violation;  and(5)  any other matter justice requires.(i)  The coordinating board, in consultation with an advocacy organization for persons who are blind or visually impaired, an advocacy organization for persons with dyslexia, representatives from one or more instructional material publishing companies or publishing associations, and institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for administering this section, including rules that address:(1)  the method for identifying instructional material considered to be required or essential for a student's success in a course;(2)  the procedures and standards relating to distribution of electronic copies of instructional material under this section; and(3)  any other matter considered necessary or appropriate for the administration of this section.(j)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a publisher or manufacturer is not required to comply with Subsection (c) or (f), as applicable, if the coordinating board, using procedures and criteria adopted by coordinating board rule and based on information provided by the publisher or manufacturer, determines that:(1)  compliance by the manufacturer or publisher would violate a law, rule, or regulation relating to copyrights; or(2)  the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based is:(A)  out of print; or(B)  in a format that makes it impracticable to convert the material into an electronic format.
Sec. 51.9705.  NOTICE REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF TEXTBOOKS THROUGH MULTIPLE RETAILERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "University-affiliated bookstore" means a bookstore that:(A)  sells textbooks for courses offered by an institution of higher education, regardless of whether the bookstore is located on the campus of the institution; and(B)  is operated by or with the approval of the institution through ownership, a management agreement, a lease or rental agreement, or otherwise.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide to each student enrolled at the institution written notice regarding the availability of required or recommended textbooks through university-affiliated bookstores and through retailers other than university-affiliated bookstores.  The procedures must require the institution to provide the notice:(1)  to each student of the institution during the week preceding each fall and spring semester;(2)  to each student enrolled at the institution in a semester or summer term during the first three weeks of the semester or the first week of the summer term, as applicable; and(3)  to students or prospective students of the institution attending an orientation conducted by or for the institution.(c)  The notice shall be provided in a hard-copy or electronic format in a manner that ensures that the notice is reasonably likely to come to the attention of a student receiving the notice.  The notice must contain the following:"A student of this institution is not under any obligation to purchase a textbook from a university-affiliated bookstore.  The same textbook may also be available from an independent retailer, including an online retailer."(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section.
Sec. 51.971.  COMPLIANCE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Compliance program" means a process to assess and ensure compliance by the officers, employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, or other persons acting on behalf of an institution of higher education with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policies, including matters of:(A)  ethics and standards of conduct;(B)  financial reporting;(C)  internal accounting controls; or(D)  auditing.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education that maintains a compliance program may establish procedures, such as a telephone hotline, to permit private access to the compliance program office and to preserve the confidentiality of communications and the anonymity of a person making a compliance report or participating in a compliance investigation.(c)  The following are confidential:(1)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual who made a report to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education, sought guidance from the office, or participated in an investigation conducted under the compliance program; and(2)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual as a person who is alleged to have or may have planned, initiated, or participated in activities that are the subject of a report made to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education if, after completing an investigation, the office determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(d)  Subsection (c) does not apply to information related to an individual who consents to disclosure of the information.(e)  Information is excepted from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, if it is collected or produced:(1)  in a compliance program investigation and releasing the information would interfere with an ongoing compliance investigation; or(2)  by a systemwide compliance office for the purpose of reviewing compliance processes at a component institution of higher education of a university system.(f)  Information made confidential or excepted from public disclosure by this section may be made available to the following on request in compliance with applicable law and procedure:(1)  a law enforcement agency or prosecutor;(2)  a governmental agency responsible for investigating the matter that is the subject of a compliance report, including the Texas Workforce Commission civil rights division or the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; or(3)  an officer or employee of an institution of higher education or a compliance officer or employee of a university system administration who is responsible under institutional or system policy for a compliance program investigation or for reviewing a compliance program investigation.(g)  A disclosure under Subsection (f) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.
Sec. 51.9715.  RELEASE OF STUDENT ACADEMIC INFORMATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may request the submission of a signed consent form authorizing the institution to release academic course, grade, and credit information with each:(1)  application for undergraduate transfer admission to the institution, if the institution is a general academic teaching institution, to be used for the purposes of Section 61.833; or(2)  request from a student for a release of the student's transcript by the institution.(a-1)  An institution of higher education, or a school district that offers international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, or any other course for which an institution of higher education may award students enrolled at the district college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination, may release student information to an institution of higher education for purposes of transferring course credit to that institution or enabling the awarding of course credit by that institution, in accordance with federal law regarding the confidentiality of student information, including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.(b)  An institution of higher education or school district may release student information in accordance with Subsection (a) or (a-1), as applicable, through:(1)  the National Student Clearinghouse; or(2)  a similar electronic data sharing and exchange platform operated by an agent of the institution or district that meets nationally accepted standards, conventions, and practices.
Sec. 51.974.  INTERNET ACCESS TO COURSE INFORMATION.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, other than a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for each undergraduate classroom course offered for credit by the institution:(1)  a syllabus that:(A)  satisfies any standards adopted by the institution;(B)  provides a brief description of each major course requirement, including each major assignment and examination;(C)  lists any required or recommended reading; and(D)  provides a general description of the subject matter of each lecture or discussion;(2)  a curriculum vitae of each regular instructor that lists the instructor's:(A)  postsecondary education;(B)  teaching experience; and(C)  significant professional publications; and(3)  if available, a departmental budget report of the department under which the course is offered, from the most recent semester or other academic term during which the institution offered the course.(a-1)  A curriculum vitae made available on the institution's Internet website under Subsection (a) may not include any personal information, including the instructor's home address or home telephone number.(b)  The information required by Subsection (a) must be:(1)  accessible from the institution's Internet website home page by use of not more than three links;(2)  searchable by keywords and phrases; and(3)  accessible to the public without requiring registration or use of a user name, a password, or another user identification.(c)  The institution shall make the information required by Subsection (a) available not later than the seventh day after the first day of classes for the semester or other academic term during which the course is offered.  The institution shall continue to make the information available on the institution's Internet website until at least the second anniversary of the date on which the institution initially posted the information.(d)  The institution shall update the information required by Subsection (a) as soon as practicable after the information changes.(e)  The governing body of the institution shall designate an administrator to be responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(f)  Not later than January 1 of each odd-numbered year, each institution of higher education shall submit a written report regarding the institution's compliance with this section to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the presiding officer of each legislative standing committee with primary jurisdiction over higher education.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section.(h)  Institutions of higher education included in this section shall conduct end-of-course student evaluations of faculty and develop a plan to make evaluations available on the institution's website.
Sec. 51.9741.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, shall post on the institution's Internet website a copy of the institution's financial transactions to the extent necessary to provide, for each payment drawn from money appropriated from the state general revenue fund or received as student tuition or fee payments:(1)  the amount of the payment;(2)  the date of the payment;(3)  a brief description of the purpose of the payment; and(4)  the name of the payee.(b)  An institution of higher education may comply with this section by providing on the institution's Internet website an easily noticeable direct link, the purpose of which is clearly identifiable, to an Internet website maintained by the comptroller that provides information concerning the institution that is similar to the information required under Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.9745.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FACULTY INFORMATION.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for the institution:(1)  the student/faculty ratio;(2)  the percentage of all full-time equivalent faculty members with teaching responsibility who are tenured or tenure track;(3)  the percentage of semester credit hours taken by students classified as freshmen or sophomores that are taught by tenured and tenure track faculty members;(4)  the number of faculty members in each of the following faculty ranks, including a breakdown for each rank showing the numbers of faculty members by race, ethnicity, and gender:(A)  professor;(B)  associate professor;(C)  assistant professor;(D)  instructor;(E)  nontenured or nontenure track; and(F)  teaching assistant;(5)  average faculty salaries by rank;(6)  the amount of money appropriated by the legislature per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(7)  the total revenue the institution spent per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(8)  the amount of federal and private research expenditures per tenured or tenure track full-time equivalent faculty member;(9)  the number and percentage of faculty members holding extramural research grants;(10)  the number and names of awards to faculty members from nationally recognized entities, including those identified by The Center for Measuring University Performance; and(11)  the number of endowed professorships or chairs.(b)  Each institution to which this section applies shall update the information required by Subsection (a) for the preceding academic or fiscal year, as applicable, not later than December 31 of each year.(c)  The administrator designated under Section 51.974 by an institution to which this section applies is responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section, including rules to ensure the consistency of information made available under this section.
Sec. 51.975.  SHARING OF UNDERUSED CLASSROOMS.  (a)  A public institution of higher education may make the institution's classrooms not scheduled for use by the institution or by students, student organizations, or faculty of the institution between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. on one or more weekdays or between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on one or more Saturdays available for that day to another public junior college on request for teaching courses in the core curriculum, as defined by Section 61.821, or continuing education courses.(b)  A public institution of higher education that under Subsection (a) makes a classroom available to another institution shall continue to make that classroom, or a comparable classroom, available to the other institution for the duration of the semester or other academic term.(c)  An institution of higher education may charge another institution for the use of a classroom under this section at a rate not to exceed the rate permitted for this purpose as determined by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.  The coordinating board shall establish those rates in an amount to reimburse the host institution for utility costs and other costs, such as maintenance and custodial services, based on the infrastructure formula funding that the host institution would receive if teaching a course in that space itself for that time.
Sec. 51.976.  TRAINING AND EXAMINATION PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYEES OF CAMPUS PROGRAMS FOR MINORS ON WARNING SIGNS OF SEXUAL ABUSE AND CHILD MOLESTATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Camper" means a minor who is attending a campus program for minors.(2)  "Campus program for minors" means a program that:(A)  is operated by or on the campus of an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  offers recreational, athletic, religious, or educational activities for at least 20 campers who:(i)  are not enrolled at the institution; and(ii)  attend or temporarily reside at the camp for all or part of at least four days; and(C)  is not a day camp or youth camp as defined by Section 141.002, Health and Safety Code, or a facility or program required to be licensed by the Department of Family and Protective Services.(3)  "Department" means the Department of State Health Services.(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Program operator" means a person who owns, operates, or supervises a campus program for minors, regardless of profit.(7)  "Training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation" means a program approved by the department under Subsection (f).(b)  A program operator may not employ an individual in a position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors unless:(1)  the individual submits to the program operator or the campus program for minors has on file documentation that verifies the individual within the preceding two years successfully completed the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation; or(2)  the individual successfully completes the campus program for minors training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation, which must be approved by the department, during the individual's first five days of employment by the campus program for minors and the campus program issues and files documentation verifying successful completion.(c)  Subsection (b) does not apply to an individual who is a student enrolled at the institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted and whose contact with campers is limited to a single class of short duration.(d)  A program operator must:(1)  submit to the department:(A)  on the form and within the time prescribed by the department verification that each employee of the campus program for minors has complied with the requirements of this section; and(B)  the fee assessed by the department under Subsection (g); and(2)  retain in the operator's records a copy of the documentation required or issued under Subsection (b) for each employee until the second anniversary of the examination date.(e)  A person applying for or holding an employee position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors must successfully complete the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation during the applicable period prescribed by Subsection (b).(f)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission by rule shall establish criteria and guidelines for the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation required by this section.  The program must include training and an examination on the topics listed in Section 141.0095(e), Health and Safety Code.  The department may approve training and examination programs on sexual abuse and child molestation offered by trainers under contract with campus programs for minors or by online training organizations or may approve programs offered in another format authorized by the department.(g)  The department may assess a fee in the amount necessary to cover the costs of administering this section to:(1)  each person that applies for the department's approval of a training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation under this section; and(2)  each program operator who files with the department the verification form required under Subsection (d)(1)(A).(h)  The department at least every five years shall review each training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation approved by the department under Subsection (f) to ensure the program continues to meet the criteria and guidelines established by rule under that subsection.(i)  The department may investigate a person the department suspects of violating this section or a rule adopted under this section.  A person who violates this section is subject to the enforcement provisions of Section 141.015, Health and Safety Code, as if the person violated Chapter 141, Health and Safety Code, or a rule adopted under that chapter.(j)  The program operator and the institution that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted are immune from civil or criminal liability for any act or omission of an employee for which the employee is immune under Section 261.106, Family Code.(k)  A program operator shall consider the costs of compliance with this section in determining any charges or fees imposed and collected for participation in the campus program for minors.
Sec. 51.9761.  CHILD ABUSE REPORTING POLICY AND TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "other maltreatment" has the meaning assigned by Section 42.002, Human Resources Code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy governing the reporting of child abuse and neglect as required by Chapter 261, Family Code, for the institution and its employees.  The policy must require each employee of the institution to report child abuse and neglect in the manner required by Chapter 261, Family Code.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall provide training for employees who are professionals as defined by Section 261.101, Family Code, in prevention techniques for and the recognition of symptoms of sexual abuse and other maltreatment of children and the responsibility and procedure of reporting suspected occurrences of sexual abuse and other maltreatment.  The training must include:(1)  techniques for reducing a child's risk of sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(2)  factors indicating a child is at risk for sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(3)  the warning signs and symptoms associated with sexual abuse or other maltreatment and recognition of those signs and symptoms; and(4)  the requirements and procedures for reporting suspected sexual abuse or other maltreatment as provided by Chapter 261, Family Code.
Sec. 51.977.  EMPLOYMENT POLICIES FOR CERTAIN PERSONS EMPLOYED BY MEDICAL AND DENTAL UNITS.  (a)  The president of a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall determine whether a person employed by the unit for patient care or clinical activities is a full-time employee for purposes of:(1)  employees group benefits under Chapter 1551 or 1601, Insurance Code;(2)  leave under Chapter 661 or 662, Government Code; and(3)  longevity pay under Section 659.043, Government Code.(b)  A determination under Subsection (a) does not entitle a person who works less than 40 hours a week to the full state contribution to the cost of any coverage or benefits.  However, from money other than money appropriated from the general revenue fund, the employing medical and dental unit may contribute to that cost amounts in excess of the state contribution.
Sec. 51.978.  TEMPORARY HOUSING BETWEEN ACADEMIC TERMS FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS FORMERLY UNDER CONSERVATORSHIP OF DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND PROTECTIVE SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Academic term" includes a summer session.(b)  To be eligible to receive housing assistance from an institution of higher education under Subsection (c), a student must:(1)  have been under the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services or its predecessor in function on the day preceding:(A)  the student's 18th birthday; or(B)  the date the student's disabilities of minority are removed by a court under Chapter 31, Family Code;(2)  be enrolled full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately preceding the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;(3)  be registered or otherwise have taken the actions required by the institution to permit the student to enroll full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately following the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;  and(4)  lack other reasonable temporary housing alternatives between the academic terms described by Subdivisions (2) and (3), as determined by the institution.(c)  On the student's request, each institution of higher education shall assist an eligible student in locating temporary housing for any period beginning on the last day of an academic term and ending on the first day of the immediately following academic term, according to the institution's academic calendar.(d)  For each eligible student under Subsection (b) who also demonstrates financial need, the institution may:(1)  provide a stipend to cover any reasonable costs of the temporary housing that are not covered by other financial aid immediately available to the student for that purpose; or(2)  provide temporary housing directly to the student for the applicable period.(e)  The receipt of a stipend under Subsection (d) does not prohibit the student from receiving additional stipends under that subsection in one or more subsequent periods, based on the student's demonstrated financial need.(f)  An institution of higher education may use any available revenue, including legislative appropriations, and may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and donations for the purposes of this section.  The institution shall use any gifts, grants, and donations received for the purposes of this section before using other revenue.
Sec. 51.980.  INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC COMPETITION BASED ON BIOLOGICAL SEX.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athletic competition" means any athletic display between teams or individuals, such as a contest, exhibition, performance, or sport.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), an intercollegiate athletic team sponsored or authorized by an institution of higher education may not allow:(1)  a student to compete on the team in an intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution that is designated for the biological sex opposite to the student's biological sex; or(2)  a male student to compete on the team in a mixed-sex intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution in a position that is designated by rule or procedure for female students.(c)  An intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may allow a female student to compete in an intercollegiate athletic competition that is designated for male students if a corresponding intercollegiate athletic competition designated for female students is not offered or available.(d)  For purposes of this section:(1)  a student's biological sex is the biological sex correctly stated on:(A)  the student's official birth certificate, as described by Subdivision (2); or(B)  if the student's official birth certificate described by Paragraph (A) is unobtainable, another government record that accurately states the student's biological sex; and(2)  a statement of a student's biological sex on the student's official birth certificate is considered to have correctly stated the student's biological sex only if the statement was:(A)  entered at or near the time of the student's birth; or(B)  modified to correct a scrivener or clerical error in the student's biological sex.(e)  An institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may not retaliate against a person for reporting a violation of this section.(f)  A person may bring a civil action for injunctive relief against an institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) that violates this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules to implement this section.  The rules must ensure compliance with state and federal law regarding the confidentiality of student medical information, including Chapter 181, Health and Safety Code, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.).
Sec. 51.981.  OFF-CAMPUS WORKFORCE EDUCATION OR LOWER-DIVISION PROGRAMS REQUESTED BY EMPLOYERS.  An institution of higher education may enter into an agreement with an employer to provide a credit or noncredit off-campus workforce education or lower-division program to the institution's students at a site requested by the employer without the approval of a higher education regional council established under Subchapter N, regardless of whether the site at which the program would be offered is located within the institution's uniform state service region or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area, if:(1)  the employer has solicited an agreement to offer the program at that site with another institution of higher education that offers the same or substantially equivalent coursework as that requested by the employer;(2)  the proposed site for the off-campus program is located within the uniform state service region in which the institution described by Subdivision (1) is located or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area; and(3)  the institution of higher education described by Subdivision (1) does not finalize an offer to enter into an agreement with the employer that meets the employer's specifications for the off-campus program within six weeks after the employer's initial written solicitation requesting the institution to offer the program.
Sec. 51.982.  PROTECTIONS FOR PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Parenting student" means a student who is the parent or legal guardian of a child under 18 years of age.(b)  An institution of higher education may not require a pregnant or parenting student, solely because of the student's status as a pregnant or parenting student or due to issues related to the student's pregnancy or parenting, to:(1)  take a leave of absence or withdraw from the student's degree or certificate program;(2)  limit the student's studies;(3)  participate in an alternative program;(4)  change the student's major, degree, or certificate program; or(5)  refrain from joining or cease participating in any course, activity, or program at the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education shall provide reasonable accommodations to a pregnant student, including accommodations that:(1)  would be provided to a student with a temporary medical condition; or(2)  are related to the health and safety of the student and the student's unborn child, such as allowing the student to maintain a safe distance from substances, areas, and activities known to be hazardous to pregnant women or unborn children.(d)  An institution of higher education shall, for reasons related to a student's pregnancy, childbirth, or any resulting medical status or condition:(1)  excuse the student's absence;(2)  allow the student to make up missed assignments or assessments;(3)  allow the student additional time to complete assignments in the same manner as the institution allows for a student with a temporary medical condition; and(4)  provide the student with access to instructional materials and video recordings of lectures for classes for which the student has an excused absence under this section to the same extent that instructional materials and video recordings of lectures are made available to any other student with an excused absence.(e)  An institution of higher education shall allow a pregnant or parenting student to:(1)  take a leave of absence; and(2)  if in good academic standing at the time the student takes a leave of absence, return to the student's degree or certificate program in good academic standing without being required to reapply for admission.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy for students on pregnancy and parenting discrimination.  The policy must:(1)  include the contact information for the employee or office of the institution that is the designated point of contact for a student requesting each protection or accommodation under this section;(2)  be posted in an easily accessible, straightforward format on the institution's Internet website; and(3)  be made available annually to faculty, staff, and employees of the institution.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish minimum periods for which a pregnant or parenting student must be given a leave of absence under Subsection (e).  In establishing those periods, the board shall consider the maximum amount of time a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to complete the student's degree or certificate program.
Sec. 51.987.  CERTAIN ACADEMIC BOYCOTTS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES PROHIBITED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Subject to Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not implement an academic boycott of a foreign country that would prevent a student or faculty member of the institution from:(1)  studying or conducting research in or about the country; or(2)  interacting with the country's scholars or representatives.(c)  An institution of higher education may implement an academic boycott described by Subsection (b) of a foreign country included by the United States Department of State on a list of state sponsors of terrorism.  The boycott may not prevent a student enrolled at the institution from studying or being educated about the country.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.
E-3
Sec. 51.002.  FUNDS SUBJECT TO CONTROL.  (a)  The governing board of each institution listed in Section 51.001 of this code may retain control of the following sums of money collected at the institution, subject to Section 51.008 of this code:(1)  student fees of all kinds;(2)  charges for use of rooms and dormitories;(3)  receipts from meals, cafes, and cafeterias;(4)  fees on deposit refundable to students under certain conditions;(5)  receipts from school athletic activities;(6)  income from student publications and other student activities;(7)  receipts from the sale of publication products and miscellaneous supplies and equipment;(8)  students' voluntary deposits of money for safekeeping;(9)  all other fees and local or institutional funds arising out of and by virtue of the educational activities, research, or demonstrations carried on by the institution;  and(10)  donations and gifts to the institution.(b)  The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to any income derived from the permanent university fund.
Sec. 51.003.  DEPOSITORIES.  (a)  The governing board of each institution may select one or more depositories as places of deposit for the funds enumerated in Section 51.002 of this code.  Depositories shall be selected on the basis of competitive bids.  If bids are taken orally, the bids shall be tabulated by the person taking the bids and made a part of the permanent records of the institution.(b)  The funds shall either be deposited in the depository bank or banks or invested as authorized by Chapter 2256, Government Code (Public Funds Investment Act).  Funds that are to be deposited in the depository bank or banks must be deposited within seven days from the date of receipt by the institution.(c)  The governing board shall require adequate surety bonds or securities to be posted to secure the deposits and may require additional security at any time it deems the deposits inadequately secured.  The depository banks selected may pledge their securities to protect the funds.(d)  A depository shall pay interest on the deposits at a rate agreed on by the depository and the governing board.(e)  Any surety bond furnished under the provisions of this section shall be payable to the governor and his successors in office.  Venue for a suit to recover an amount claimed by the state to be due on a surety bond is in Travis County.(f)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the governing board of each institution may maintain unsecured deposits in a foreign bank as necessary to support the institution's academic and research operations in the foreign country in which the bank is located, provided that no appropriated or tuition funds other than those collected from students enrolled in the affected programs are deposited.  The foreign bank must:(1)  be licensed and supervised by a central bank;(2)  be audited annually by an accounting firm that follows international financial reporting standards; and(3)  maintain a capital to total assets ratio that is not less than the greater of four percent or the minimum tier 1 capital to total assets ratio required for depository institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Sec. 51.0031.  DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS.  (a)  A governing board may deposit funds under its control as provided in Section 51.003 of this code, may invest funds under its control in accordance with Chapter 2256, Government Code and, with regard to donations, gifts, and trusts, may establish endowment funds that operate as trusts and are managed under prudent person standards.(b)  Funds described in this section may also be invested in cash management and fixed income funds held by organizations exempt from federal taxation under Section 501(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Section 501(f)), as that section may be amended.(c)  If a governing board has under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, such governing board may invest all funds described in this section under prudent person standards.(c-1)  If a governing board does not have under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, the governing board may contract to pool its funds described in this section with another institution that meets the $25 million in book value of endowment funds threshold established under Subsection (c), and have its funds invested by that governing board under prudent person standards.(d)  As used in this section, "prudent person standard" is the standard of care described in Article VII, Section 11b, of the Texas Constitution, and means that standard of judgment and care that prudent investors, exercising reasonable care, skill, and caution, would acquire or retain in light of the purposes, terms, distribution requirements, and other circumstances of the fund then prevailing, taking into consideration the investment of all the assets of the fund rather than a single investment.
Sec. 51.0032.  INVESTMENT REPORTS AND POLICIES.  (a)  A governing board shall adopt by rule or resolution a written investment policy for the investment of its institutional funds.(b)  Not less than quarterly, an institution of higher education shall prepare and submit to the governing board of the institution a written report of the institution's institutional funds investment transactions for the preceding reporting period.(c)  In addition to other information that may be required by the governing board, the report must contain:(1)  a summary statement of each pooled fund group that states the beginning market value for the reporting period, additions and changes to the market value during the period, and the ending market value for the period;  and(2)  the book value and market value of each separately invested asset at the beginning and end of the reporting period by type of asset and fund type invested.(d)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" means a governing board described in Section 51.0031(c).(2)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education under the governance of a governing board to which this section applies.(3)  "Pooled fund group" means an internally created fund of an institution of higher education in which one or more institutional accounts are invested.(4)  "Separately invested asset" means an account of an institution of higher education that is not invested in a pooled fund group.
Sec. 51.004.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS;  TRUST FUNDS;  INTEREST.  (a)  Separate accounts shall be kept on the books of the institution showing the sources of all sums collected and the purposes for which disbursements are made.(b)  All trust funds, including gifts, grants, and bequests received, establishing or adding to endowment funds, loan and scholarship funds, and funds for other current restricted purposes, shall be credited to separate accounts and shall not be commingled with other local or institutional funds.(c)  If the governing board so elects, deposits of all funds not specifically required to be deposited to special accounts may be deposited in a single bank account if the records of the institution clearly reflect the balances attributable to general funds and various categories of trust funds.(d)  Interest received from depository banks for funds on deposit may be credited to an appropriate account in either general funds or trust funds in relation to the sources of temporary investments in time deposits, if the disposition of the earnings was not specified by the grantor.  Interest received from the trust funds time deposits shall be available for loans, scholarships, fellowships, institutional research, faculty aid, and other lawful purposes.
Sec. 51.0051.  ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGETS.  The governing board of each institution shall approve on or before September 1 of each year an itemized budget covering the operation of the institution for the fiscal year beginning on September 1 of each year.  The budget shall be prepared within the limits of legislatively appropriated general revenue and estimated educational and general funds.  The budget shall also include estimated institutional funds.  Copies of each such budget shall be furnished to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for distribution to the Governor's Budget and Planning Office, Legislative Budget Board, and Legislative Reference Library.  Additional copies shall be delivered to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board as required.  The governing board of the institution shall retain five copies of the budget for distribution to legislators or other state officials on request.
Sec. 51.0052.  APPLICATION REQUIREMENT FOR COLONIAS PROJECTS.  (a)  In this section, "colonia" means a geographic area that:(1)  is an economically distressed area as defined by Section 17.921, Water Code;(2)  is located in a county any part of which is within 62 miles of an international border; and(3)  consists of 11 or more dwellings that are located in close proximity to each other in an area that may be described as a community or neighborhood.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(d)  Regarding any projects funded by an institution of higher education that provide assistance to colonias, the institution of higher education shall require an applicant for the funds to submit to the institution a colonia classification number, if one exists, for each colonia that may be served by the project proposed in the application.  If a colonia does not have a classification number, the institution of higher education may contact the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative to obtain the classification number.  On request of the institution, the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative shall assign a classification number to the colonia.
Sec. 51.007.  PENALTY.  Any state officer, agent, employee, or member of a governing board of any of the above named institutions, or any other person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, and in addition may be sentenced to not less than 15 days nor more than three months in the county jail.  Failure to print and furnish to the officers above named, the reports above specified, shall subject all of the members of the governing board of the institutions above mentioned to the penalties provided for in this section.  Every day in excess of the number of days hereinabove provided for that any sum of money belonging to any of the funds enumerated in this subchapter, whether depositable in special depositories or whether those that should be deposited in the state treasury, shall be withheld from deposit at its proper place of deposit, shall constitute a separate offense and each day of such withholding shall subject the officer, agent, employee, or person so withholding said sum to the penalties herein provided for.
Sec. 51.008.  CERTAIN RECEIPTS TO BE DEPOSITED IN STATE TREASURY.  (a)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education is directed to designate special depository banks, subject to the approval of the comptroller, for the purpose of receiving and keeping certain receipts of the institution separate and apart from funds now deposited in the state treasury.  The receipts here referred to are described in Subsection (b) of this section.  The comptroller is directed to deposit the receipts, or funds representing such receipts, enumerated herein, in the special depository bank or banks nearest the institution credited with the receipts, so far as is practicable, and is authorized to withdraw such funds on drafts or checks prescribed by the comptroller. The comptroller is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to require collateral security for the protection of such funds pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 404, Government Code. For the purpose of facilitating the clearance and collection of the receipts herein enumerated, the comptroller is hereby authorized to deposit such receipts in any state depository bank and transfer funds representing such receipts enumerated herein to the respective special depository banks.  Banks so designated as special depository banks are hereby authorized to pledge their securities to protect such funds.(b)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education shall deposit in the state treasury all cash receipts accruing to any college or university under its control that may be derived from all sources except auxiliary enterprises, noninstructional services, agency, designated, and restricted funds, endowment and other gift funds, student loan funds, funds retained under Chapter 145 of this code, and Constitutional College Building Amendment funds.  The comptroller is directed to credit such receipts deposited by each such institution to a separate fund account for the institution depositing the receipts, but he shall not be required to keep separate accounts of types of funds deposited by each institution.  For the purpose of facilitating the transferring of such institutional receipts to the state treasury, each institution shall open in a local depository bank a clearing account to which it shall deposit daily all such receipts, and shall, not less often than every seven days, make remittances therefrom to the comptroller of all except $500 of the total balance in said clearing account, such remittances to be in the form of checks drawn on the clearing account by the duly authorized officers of the institution, and no disbursements other than remittances to the state treasury shall be made from such clearing account.  All money so deposited in the state treasury shall be paid out on warrants drawn by the comptroller as provided by law.(c)  The legislature is authorized to create revolving funds for the handling of funds of institutions of higher education, as enumerated herein, by making provision in each biennial appropriation bill enacted by the legislature.(d)  Nothing in this section affects the provisions of Title 47, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, usually referred to as the State Depository Law.  However, the limitation of deposits contained in Article 2532, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, as amended, shall not apply insofar as the specific funds enumerated in this section are concerned.(e)  This section prevails over Sections 51.001-51.007 of this code to the extent of any conflict.(f)  Interest earned on the receipts deposited under this section to an institution's separate fund account in the state treasury shall be credited to that separate fund account.(g)  Revenues collected at institutions of higher education and deposited in the state treasury pursuant to this section and Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, and the interest earned thereon, are dedicated to the institution which collected and deposited the funds irrespective of the year the funds were collected, deposited, or earned.  These funds may be only used for the support, maintenance, and operation of the institution as provided for by law.  Section 403.094(h), Government Code, does not apply to funds described in this section.(h)  Tuition revenues and revenue collected under Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, that are deposited in the treasury pursuant to this section, and the interest earned on those revenues, shall be treated as designated funds in the general revenue fund.  Notwithstanding a pledge of those revenues made or to be made in the proceedings approved by the governing board of an institution of higher education authorizing the issuance or incurrence of bonds, the deposit of those revenues in the treasury to the credit of an account in the general revenue fund does not:(1)  affect in any manner the pledge of the revenues or the governing board's ability to pledge the revenues to secure and pay bonds issued or incurred by the governing board in accordance with law;(2)  cause the bonds to constitute a debt of the state or be payable from the full faith and credit of the state;(3)  change the character of the revenues as separate revenue of the institution collecting the revenue;  or(4)  cause the revenue to be considered general revenue for purposes of Sections 17 and 18, Article VII, Texas Constitution.
Sec. 51.009.  DEFINING AND ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INCOME.  (a)  "Local funds" are the items to be accounted for as "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section, but do not include general revenue funds.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(b)  "Institutional funds" means all funds collected at the institution that are not "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(c)  Each of the following shall be accounted for as educational and general funds:(1)  net tuition, special course fees charged under Sections 54.051(e) and (l), lab fees, student teaching fees, organized activity fees, and proceeds from the sale of educational and general equipment; and(2)  hospital and clinic fees received by a state-owned clinical care facility that is operated using general revenue fund appropriations for patient care.
Sec. 51.011.  DISPOSITION OF SMALL CREDIT BALANCES.  (a)  This section applies to a credit balance of less than $25 held by an institution of higher education that is presumed abandoned under Chapter 72, Property Code.(b)  An institution of higher education may maintain an unclaimed money fund and transfer to that fund a credit balance to which this section applies.  A deposit to the unclaimed money fund does not affect the ownership of the amount deposited.  The institution shall:(1)  adopt procedures for owners to make and receive payments of claims against the fund; and(2)  maintain a database that permits members of the public to search for ownership of unclaimed funds.(c)  The institution of higher education shall use the fund to pay the claims of persons establishing ownership of amounts transferred to the fund and shall hold and account for the unclaimed money fund as educational and general funds of the institution.  If the fund balance is insufficient to pay a valid claim, the institution shall pay the claim from the institution's other educational and general funds.(d)  Each fiscal year, after deducting funds sufficient to pay anticipated expenses of and claims against the unclaimed money fund, the institution shall use the balance of the fund as other educational and general funds of the institution.(e)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the comptroller by rule may establish minimum requirements for notice to owners of unclaimed money deposited in the unclaimed money fund and for charges for that notice.  The rules may not provide stricter requirements than the comptroller applies for amounts of less than $25 in the custody of the comptroller under Chapter 74, Property Code.(f)  If an institution of higher education maintains an unclaimed money fund under this section, Chapter 74, Property Code, does not apply to a credit balance to which this section applies.
SUBCHAPTER C. FACULTY DEVELOPMENT LEAVES OF ABSENCESec. 51.101.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 61.003 of this code, except that Texas State Technical College System is included and the Rodent and Predatory Animal Control Service is excluded for the purposes of this subchapter.(2)  "Governing board" means the body charged with policy direction of an institution of higher education.(3)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed by an institution of higher education on a full-time basis as a member of the faculty or staff and whose duties include teaching, research, administration, including professional librarians, or the performance of professional services.  However, the term does not include a person employed in a position which is in the institution's classified personnel system or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system.
Sec. 51.102.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.  The legislature finds that higher education is vitally important to the welfare, if not the survival, of Texas and the United States at this stage in history and that the quality of higher education is dependent upon the quality of college and university faculties.  The legislature finds, therefore, that money spent on recognized means for producing an excellent system of public higher education is money spent to serve a public purpose of great importance.  The legislature finds further that a sound program of faculty development leaves of absence designed to enable the faculty member to engage in study, research, writing, and similar projects for the purpose of adding to the knowledge available to himself, his students, his institution, and society generally is a well-recognized means for improving a state's program of public higher education.  The legislature's purpose in establishing the faculty development leave program provided for by this subchapter is to improve further the higher education available to the youth at the state-supported colleges and universities and to establish this program of faculty development leaves as part of the plan of compensation for the faculty of these colleges and universities.
Sec. 51.103.  GRANTING LEAVES OF ABSENCE;  PROCEDURES.  (a)  On the application of a faculty member, the governing board of an institution of higher education may grant a faculty development leave of absence for study, research, writing, field observations, or other suitable purpose, to a faculty member if it finds that he is eligible by reason of service, that the purpose for which he seeks a faculty development leave is one for which a faculty development leave may be granted, and that granting leave to him will not place on faculty development leave a greater number of faculty members than that authorized.(b)  The governing board by regulation shall establish a procedure whereby the applications for faculty development leaves of absence are received by a committee elected by the general faculty for evaluation and whereby this faculty committee then makes recommendations to the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education, who shall then make recommendations to the governing board as to which applications should be granted.
Sec. 51.105.  DURATION AND COMPENSATION.  (a)  The governing board may grant to a faculty member a faculty development leave either for one academic year at one-half of his regular salary or for one-half academic year at his full regular salary.  Payment of salary to the faculty member on faculty development leave may be made from the funds appropriated by the legislature specifically for that purpose, or from such other funds as might be available to the institution.(b)  A faculty member on faculty development leave may accept a grant for study, research, or travel from any institution of higher education, from a charitable, religious, or educational corporation or foundation, from any business enterprise, or from any federal, state, or local governmental agency.  An accounting of all grants shall be made to the governing board of the institution by the faculty member.  A faculty member on faculty development leave may not accept employment from any other person, corporation, or government, unless the governing board determines that it would be in the public interest to do so and expressly approves the employment.
Sec. 51.107.  RIGHTS RETAINED.  (a)  A faculty member on faculty development leave shall continue to be a member of the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or of the Optional Retirement Program of the institution of higher education, or of both, just as any other member of the faculty on full-time duty.(b)  The institution of higher education shall cause to be deducted from the compensation paid to a member of the faculty on faculty development leave the deposit and membership dues required to be paid by him to the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or to the Optional Retirement Program, or both, the contribution for Old Age and Survivors Insurance, and any other amounts required or authorized to be deducted from the compensation paid any faculty member.(c)  A member of the faculty on faculty development leave is a faculty member for purposes of participating in the programs and of receiving the benefits made available by or through the institution of higher education or the state to faculty members.
Sec. 51.153.  WESTERN INFORMATION NETWORK ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The Western Information Network Association is an agency of the state composed of the following state-supported member institutions of higher education:  Amarillo College, Angelo State University, Clarendon Junior College, Frank Phillips College, Howard County Junior College, Midwestern University, Odessa College, South Plains College, Sul Ross State University, Texas Tech University, The University of Texas at El Paso, and West Texas State University.(b)  The board by a majority vote may admit other state-supported institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(c)  The board by unanimous vote may admit private institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(d)  The board by unanimous vote may admit other organizations to associate membership in the association.(e)  The Western Information Network Association is subject to the Texas Sunset Act (Chapter 325, Government Code).  Unless continued in existence as provided by that Act, the association is abolished September 1, 1989.
Sec. 51.161.  POWERS AND DUTIES OF ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The association may acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, a multichannel, two-way communications system, including closed-circuit television, linking classrooms, libraries, computer facilities, information retrieval systems, and communications facilities located at the member institutions.(b)  The association may lease, acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, any facilities in addition to those described in Subsection (a) of this section, which the board considers necessary or desirable in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.(c)  The association is authorized to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, operate, maintain, and equip a dormitory or dormitories located on or near the campus of any member institution of the association that is a state-supported institution of higher education, and to issue its revenue bonds therefor as provided in this subchapter.(d)  The association may interchange educational information with private educational institutions, school districts, the United States government, and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects, and use the facilities of the association only in the exchange, retrieval, and transfer of information and the interchange of approval course offering and instruction between member-institutions and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects.  Any dormitories leased, acquired, operated, and maintained by the association shall not be subject to the use limitation of this subsection that applies to all other facilities of the association.
Sec. 51.170.  REVENUE BONDS.  (a)  The board may issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of providing funds to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, purchase, construct, improve, enlarge, or equip any property, buildings, structures, or other facilities, including but not limited to dormitories, for and on behalf of the association.(b)  The bonds shall be payable from and secured by liens on and pledges of all or any part of the revenues from any lease rentals, rentals, charges, fees, or other resources of the board or association.(c)  The bonds may be issued to mature serially or otherwise within not more than 40 years from their date.  The board may provide for the subsequent issuance of additional parity bonds, or subordinate lien bonds, under the terms and conditions set forth in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(d)  The bonds, and any interest coupons appertaining to them, are negotiable instruments.  The bonds may be issued registrable as to principal alone or as to both principal and interest.  They shall be executed, and may be made redeemable prior to maturity, may be issued in the form, denominations, and manner, and under the terms, conditions, and details, may be sold in the manner, at the price, and under the terms, and shall bear interest at the rate or rates, as is determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(e)  Proceeds from the sale of the bonds may be used for paying interest on the bonds during the period of the acquisition or construction of any facilities to be provided through the issuance of the bonds and for providing a reserve for the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds.  The proceeds may be placed on time deposit or invested until needed to the extent and in the manner provided in the bond resolution.(f)  The board shall fix and collect lease rentals, rentals, rates, charges, and fees, or any combination of them, from students or others for the occupancy, use, or availability of all or any of its property, buildings, structures, or other facilities in amounts which will be sufficient, together with any other pledged resources, to provide for all payments of principal, interest, and any other amounts required in connection with any bonds issued under this section, and, to the extent required by the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, to provide for the payment of expenses in connection with the issuance of the bonds and for the payment of operation, maintenance, and other expenses in connection with the property, buildings, structures, or facilities.(g)  Fees for the use or availability of all or any property, buildings, structures, or facilities may be pledged to the payment of the bonds, and shall be fixed and collected in the manner determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.  The board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any resources of the board or association to the extent that the resources are permitted to be pledged to the payment of the revenue bonds.  Each board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any grant, donation, or income received or to be received from the United States government or any other public or private source, whether pursuant to an agreement or otherwise.
Sec. 51.172.  APPROVAL OF BONDS;  REGISTRATION.  All bonds issued under this subchapter shall be submitted to the attorney general for examination.  If he finds that the bonds have been authorized in accordance with law, he shall approve them, and thereupon they shall be registered by the comptroller of public accounts.  After the approval and registration the bonds are incontestable for any reason and are valid and binding obligations in accordance with their terms for all purposes.  If the bonds recite that they are secured partially or otherwise by a pledge of the proceeds of a contract or lease made between the board and another party or parties, public agencies, or otherwise, a copy of the contract or lease and of the proceedings authorizing it may or may not be submitted to the attorney general along with the bond records.  If submitted, then the approval by the attorney general of the bonds shall constitute an approval of the contract or lease, and thereafter the contract or lease shall be incontestable.
Sec. 51.173.  BONDS AS LEGAL INVESTMENTS.  All bonds issued under this subchapter are legal and authorized investments for all banks, trust companies, building and loan associations, savings and loan associations, insurance companies of all kinds and types, fiduciaries, trustees, and guardians, and for all interest and sinking funds and other public funds of the State of Texas, and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic.  The bonds are eligible and lawful security for all deposits of public funds of the State of Texas and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic, to the extent of the market value of the bonds, when accompanied by any unmatured interest coupons appurtenant to them.
Sec. 51.202.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.  (a)  The governing board of each state institution of higher education, including public junior colleges, may promulgate rules and regulations for the safety and welfare of students, employees, and property, and other rules and regulations it may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and the governance of the institution, providing for the operation and parking of vehicles on the grounds, streets, drives, alleys, and any other institutional property under its control, including but not limited to the following:(1)  limiting the rate of speed;(2)  assigning parking spaces and designating parking areas and their use and assessing a charge for parking;(3)  prohibiting parking as it deems necessary;(4)  removing vehicles parked in violation of institutional rules and regulations or law at the expense of the violator;  and(5)  instituting a system of registration for vehicle identification, including a reasonable charge.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 787 , Sec. 5, eff. September 1, 2015.
Sec. 51.203.  CAMPUS PEACE OFFICERS.  (a)  The governing boards of each state institution of higher education and public technical institute may employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.  The primary jurisdiction of a peace officer commissioned under this section includes all counties in which property is owned, leased, rented, or otherwise under the control of the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(b)  Within a peace officer's primary jurisdiction, a peace officer commissioned under this section:(1)  is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers;(2)  may, in accordance with Chapter 14, Code of Criminal Procedure, arrest without a warrant any person who violates a law of the state;  and(3)  may enforce all traffic laws on streets and highways.(c)  Outside a peace officer's primary jurisdiction a peace officer commissioned under this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers and may arrest any person who violates any law of the state if the peace officer:(1)  is summoned by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance;(2)  is assisting another law enforcement agency;  or(3)  is otherwise performing his duties as a peace officer for the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(d)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers.(e)  Any person commissioned under this Act must be a certified police officer under the requirements of the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.
Sec. 51.207.  VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION INSIGNIA;  VEHICLE PERMITS.  (a)  Each public institution of higher education may provide for the issuance and use of suitable vehicle identification insignia.  The institution may bar or suspend the permit of any vehicle from driving or parking on any institutional property for the violation of any rule or regulation promulgated by the board as well as for any violation of this subchapter.  Reinstatement of the privileges may be permitted and a reasonable fee assessed.(b)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is located in whole or part in an area in which a motor vehicle registered in the area is required to undergo a vehicle emissions inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.  The institution may not issue a permit to a student enrolled at the institution to park or drive a motor vehicle that is not registered in this state on institutional property unless the institution has provided written notice to the student concerning requirements for vehicle emissions inspections pursuant to Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.(c)  The Public Safety Commission shall adopt rules providing for the inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code, of motor vehicles not registered in this state for purposes of Subsection (b).(d)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is not covered by Subsection (b).  The institution may not issue a permit to a student of the institution for driving or parking a motor vehicle on institutional property unless the institution provides written notice to the student that failure to register the vehicle in this state may violate state law if the owner of the vehicle resides in this state.(e)  Each institution of higher education that maintains a campus police force shall adopt procedures for enforcing State of Texas vehicle inspection laws for vehicles parking or driving on the campus of the institution.
Sec. 51.208.  PENALTY; COURTS HAVING JURISDICTION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person who violates any provision of this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated under this subchapter commits an offense. An offense under this subsection is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $200.(c)  The judge of a municipal court or any justice of the peace of any city or county where property under the control and jurisdiction of an institution of higher education or of a private or independent institution of higher education is located is each separately vested with all jurisdiction necessary to hear and determine criminal cases involving violations of this subchapter or rules or regulations promulgated under this subchapter for which the punishment does not exceed a fine of $200.
Sec. 51.212.  PEACE OFFICERS AT PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education, including private junior colleges, are authorized to employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of enforcing:(1)  state law on the campuses of private institutions of higher education; and(2)  state and local law, including applicable municipal ordinances, at other locations, as permitted by Subsection (b) or Section 51.2125.(b)  Any officer commissioned under the provisions of this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers if the officer:(1)  is on the property under the control and jurisdiction of the respective private institution of higher education or is otherwise performing duties assigned to the officer by the institution, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution, but provided these duties are being performed within a county in which the institution has land; or(2)  to the extent authorized by Section 51.2125, is:(A)  requested by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance in enforcing state or local law, including a municipal ordinance, and is acting in response to that request; or(B)  otherwise assisting another law enforcement agency in enforcing a law described by Paragraph (A).(c)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers, and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties as may be required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(d)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education are authorized to hire and pay on a regular basis peace officers commissioned by an incorporated city.  The officers shall be under the supervision of the hiring institution, but shall be subject to dismissal and disciplinary action by the city.  An incorporated city is authorized to contract with a private institution of higher education for the use and employment of its commissioned officers in any manner agreed to, provided that there is no expense incurred by the city.(e)  In this section, "private institution of higher education" means a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(f)  A campus police department of a private institution of higher education is a law enforcement agency and a governmental body for purposes of Chapter 552, Government Code, only with respect to information relating solely to law enforcement activities.
Sec. 51.2125.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS:  AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  This section applies only to a private institution of higher education that has under its control and jurisdiction property that is contiguous to, or located in any part within the boundaries of, a home-rule municipality that has a population of 1.18 million or more and is located predominantly in a county that has a total area of less than 1,000 square miles.  For purposes of this section, a private institution of higher education is a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(b)  In addition to exercising the authority provided under Section 51.212(d), the governing board of a private institution of higher education to which this section applies and the governing body of each municipality, regardless of the municipality's population, that is contiguous to, or the boundaries of which contain any part of, property under the control and jurisdiction of the private institution of higher education may enter into a written mutual assistance agreement in which peace officers commissioned by the institution or the applicable municipality serve the public interest by assisting, without any form of additional compensation or other financial benefit, the peace officers of the other party to the agreement in enforcing state or local law, including applicable municipal ordinances.  The agreement must be reviewed at least annually by the institution and the municipality and may be modified at that time by a written agreement signed by each party.  The agreement may be terminated at any time by a party to the agreement on the provision of reasonable notice to the other party to the agreement.(c)  A mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may designate the geographic area in which the campus peace officers are authorized to provide assistance to the peace officers of the municipality, except that if the agreement is entered into with a municipality described by Subsection (a) that elects all or part of the municipality's governing body from election districts, the designated geographic area consists of each of the election districts of the municipality's governing body that contains any part of the campus of the institution and each of the election districts of the governing body that is contiguous to another municipality that contains any part of the campus of the institution.(d)  This section does not affect a municipality's duty to provide law enforcement services to any location within the boundaries of the municipality.(e)  A peace officer providing assistance under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may make arrests and exercise all other authority given to peace officers under other state law.  The municipal law enforcement agency has exclusive authority to supervise any campus peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the peace officers of the municipality.  A municipal peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the campus peace officers remains under the supervision of the municipal law enforcement agency.(f)  In the same manner and to the same extent as a municipality is liable for an act or omission of a peace officer employed by the municipality, a private institution of higher education is liable for an act or omission of a campus peace officer operating under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section at a location other than property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution.(g)  This section does not limit the authority of a campus peace officer to make a warrantless arrest outside the officer's jurisdiction as described by Article 14.03(d), Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.2126.  APPEAL BY CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR PROMOTIONAL BYPASS RELATED TO PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE UNDER MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  A campus peace officer acting under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by Section 51.2125 who is demoted, suspended, or terminated by the applicable private institution of higher education or who experiences a promotional bypass by the institution may elect to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section.(b)  To elect to appeal to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the campus peace officer must submit to the head of the institution's law enforcement agency not later than the 30th day after the date of the action being appealed a written request stating the officer's decision to appeal to such a hearing examiner.(c)  The hearing examiner's decision is final and binding on all parties.  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the officer or institution may appeal the examiner's decision to a district court only as provided by Subsection (j).(d)  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal to a hearing examiner, the officer and the head of the institution's law enforcement agency or their designees shall attempt to agree on the selection of an impartial hearing examiner.  If the parties do not agree on the selection of a hearing examiner before the 10th day after the date the appeal is filed, the parties immediately shall request a list of seven qualified neutral arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, or their successors in function.  The officer and the agency head or their designees may agree on one of the seven neutral arbitrators on the list.  If the parties do not agree before the fifth business day after the date the parties receive the list, the parties or their designees shall alternate striking a name from the list, and the single name remaining after all other names have been struck is selected as the hearing examiner.  The parties or their designees shall agree on a date for the hearing.(e)  The appeal hearing must begin as soon as an appearance by the hearing examiner can be scheduled.  If the hearing examiner cannot begin the hearing before the 45th day after the date of selection, the campus peace officer may, within 48 hours after learning of that fact, call for the selection of a new hearing examiner using the procedure prescribed by Subsection (d).(f)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the hearing examiner has the same duties and powers that a civil service commission has in conducting a hearing or hearing an appeal under Chapter 143, Local Government Code, including the right to issue subpoenas.  The hearing examiner may:(1)  order that the campus peace officer be reinstated to the same position or status in which the officer was employed immediately before the demotion, suspension, or termination or, in the case of a promotional bypass, to the position or status with respect to which the officer experienced the bypass; and(2)  award the officer lost wages and any other compensation lost as a result of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, as applicable.(g)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the parties may agree to an expedited hearing procedure.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, in an expedited procedure the hearing examiner shall issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 10th day after the date the hearing is completed.(h)  In an appeal that does not involve an expedited hearing procedure, the hearing examiner shall make a reasonable effort to issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 30th day after the later of the date the hearing is completed or the briefs are filed.  The hearing examiner's inability to meet the time requirements imposed by this section does not affect the hearing examiner's jurisdiction, the validity of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, or the hearing examiner's final decision.(i)  The hearing examiner's fees and expenses shall be paid in equal amounts by the parties.  The costs of a witness shall be paid by the party who calls the witness.(j)  A district court may hear an appeal of a hearing examiner's decision only on the grounds that the hearing examiner was without jurisdiction or exceeded the examiner's jurisdiction or that the decision was procured by fraud, collusion, or other unlawful means.  An appeal must be brought in the district court having jurisdiction in the municipality in which the institution is located.
Sec. 51.214.  SECURITY OFFICERS FOR MEDICAL CORPORATIONS IN CERTAIN MUNICIPALITIES.  (a)  In any municipality with a population of 1.18 million or more located primarily in a county with a population of 2.5 million or more, the governing board of a private, nonprofit medical corporation, or of the parent corporation of such medical corporation, that provides police or security services for an institution of higher education or a private postsecondary educational institution located within one of the medical corporation's or parent corporation's medical complexes, or that provides police or security services for another medical complex legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or parent corporation, may employ and commission police or security personnel to enforce the law of this state within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).(b)  An officer commissioned under this section may make arrests and has all the powers, privileges, and immunities of a peace officer while performing the officer's assigned duties within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).  An officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(c)  The jurisdiction of an officer commissioned under this section is limited to:(1)  property under the control and jurisdiction of the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation or any entity legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or its parent corporation;(2)  a street or alley that abuts the property or an easement in or a right-of-way over or through the property described by Subdivision (1); and(3)  any other location in which the officer is performing duties assigned to the officer by the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the medical corporation or its parent corporation, provided that the assigned duties are consistent with the mission of the medical corporation or its parent corporation and are being performed within a county in which the medical corporation or its parent corporation owns real property.(d)  An officer commissioned under this section is not entitled to compensation or benefits provided by this state or a political subdivision of this state.(e)  The state or a political subdivision of this state is not liable for an act or omission of an officer commissioned under this section during the performance of the officer's assigned duties.(f)  A person may not be commissioned under this section unless the person obtains a peace officer license issued by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.  The employing medical corporation or parent corporation shall pay to the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement on behalf of an employee any fees that are necessary to obtain a required license.(g)  A person's commission and any authority to act as an officer under this section are automatically revoked if the person's employment is terminated for any reason.
Sec. 51.215.  ACCESS TO POLICE RECORDS OF EMPLOYMENT APPLICANTS.  (a)  An institution of higher education is entitled to obtain criminal history record information pertaining to an applicant for employment for a security-sensitive position.  The institution of higher education may deny employment to an applicant for a security-sensitive position who fails to provide a complete set of fingerprints upon request.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(c)  An institution of higher education may use information obtained under this section only for the purpose of evaluating applicants for employment in security-sensitive positions.  Security-sensitive positions shall be restricted to employees who handle currency, have access to a computer terminal, have access to a master key, or who work in an area of the institution which has been designated as a security-sensitive area.  A security-sensitive position shall be so identified in the job description and advertisement for the position.(d)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" means:(1)  an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(8) of this code;  and(2)  a private institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(15) of this code.
Sec. 51.217.  MULTIHAZARD EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; SAFETY AND SECURITY AUDIT.  (a)  In this section, "institution"  means a general academic teaching institution, a medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution shall adopt and implement a multihazard emergency operations plan for use at the institution.  The plan must address mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery.  The plan must provide for:(1)  employee training in responding to an emergency;(2)  mandatory drills to prepare students, faculty, and employees for responding to an emergency;(3)  measures to ensure coordination with the Department of State Health Services, local emergency management agencies, law enforcement, health departments, and fire departments in the event of an emergency; and(4)  the implementation of a safety and security audit as required by Subsection (c).(c)  At least once every three years, an institution shall conduct a safety and security audit of the institution's facilities.  To the extent possible, an institution shall follow safety and security audit procedures developed in consultation with the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(d)  An institution shall report the results of the safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) to the institution's board of regents and the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(e)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), any document or information collected, developed, or produced during a safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  A document relating to an institution's multihazard emergency operations plan is subject to disclosure if the document enables a person to:(1)  verify that the institution has established a plan and determine the agencies involved in the development of the plan and the agencies coordinating with the institution to respond to an emergency, including the Department of State Health Services, local emergency services agencies, law enforcement agencies, health departments, and fire departments;(2)  verify that the institution's plan was reviewed within the last 12 months and determine the specific review dates;(3)  verify that the plan addresses the four phases of emergency management under Subsection (b);(4)  verify that institution employees have been trained to respond to an emergency and determine the types of training, the number of employees trained, and the person conducting the training;(5)  verify that each campus has conducted mandatory emergency drills and exercises in accordance with the plan and determine the frequency of the drills;(6)  verify that the institution has completed a safety and security audit under Subsection (c) and determine the date the audit was conducted, the person conducting the audit, and the date the institution presented the results of the audit to the board of regents; and(7)  verify that the institution has addressed any recommendations by the board of regents for improvement of the plan and determine the institution's progress within the last 12 months.(g)  The personal information of an individual maintained in an institution's emergency notification system is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.  In this subsection, "personal information" includes an e-mail address or telephone number maintained in order to notify an individual of an emergency.
Sec. 51.218.  EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education and private or independent institution of higher education shall establish an emergency alert system for the institution's students and staff, including faculty.  The emergency alert system must use e-mail or telephone notifications in addition to any other alert method the institution considers appropriate to provide timely notification of emergencies affecting the institution or its students and staff.(c)  At the time a student initially enrolls or registers for courses or a staff member begins employment, the institution shall:(1)  obtain a personal telephone number or e-mail address from the student or staff member to be used to notify the individual in the event of an emergency; and(2)  register the student or staff member in the institution's emergency alert system.(d)  A student or staff member may elect not to participate in an emergency alert system established under this section.  An election under this subsection may be submitted electronically or in writing, as chosen by the institution, and must be renewed at the start of each academic year.(e)  The personal identifying information obtained from an individual for the purpose of the emergency alert system of an institution of higher education, including an e-mail address or telephone number, is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Section 552.021, Government Code.(f)  Expired.
Sec. 51.220.  PUBLIC JUNIOR COLLEGE SCHOOL MARSHALS.  (a)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a public junior college may appoint one or more school marshals.(c)  The governing board of a public junior college may select for appointment as a school marshal under this section an applicant who is an employee of the public junior college and certified as eligible for appointment under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code.  The governing board may, but shall not be required to, reimburse the amount paid by the applicant to participate in the training program under that section.(d)  A school marshal appointed by the governing board of a public junior college may carry a concealed handgun or possess a handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus, but only:(1)  in the manner provided by written regulations adopted by the governing board; and(2)  at a specific public junior college campus as specified by the governing board. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 795 (H.B. 781), Sec. 1 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d):(1)  must:(A)  authorize a school marshal to carry a concealed handgun as described by Subsection (d); and(B)  require a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal to be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement; and(2)  may not require a school marshal to store the handgun in a locked container while on duty. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 851 (S.B. 741), Sec. 3 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d) must provide that a school marshal may carry a concealed handgun on the school marshal's person or possess the handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus in a locked and secured safe or other locked and secured location.  The written regulations must also require that a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal may be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.(f)  A school marshal may use a handgun the school marshal is authorized to carry or possess under this section only under circumstances that would justify the use of deadly force under Section 9.32 or 9.33, Penal Code.(g)  A public junior college employee's status as a school marshal becomes inactive on:(1)  expiration of the employee's school marshal license under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code;(2)  suspension or revocation of the employee's license to carry a concealed handgun issued under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code;(3)  termination of the employee's employment with the public junior college; or(4)  notice from the governing board of the public junior college that the employee's services as school marshal are no longer required.(h)  The identity of a school marshal appointed under this section is confidential, except as provided by Section 1701.260(j), Occupations Code, and is not subject to a request under Chapter 552, Government Code.(i)  If a parent or guardian of a student enrolled at a public junior college inquires in writing, the governing board of the public junior college shall provide the parent or guardian written notice indicating whether any employee of the public junior college is currently appointed a school marshal.  The notice may not disclose information that is confidential under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.232.  IDENTIFICATION OF PERSONS ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, as determined by the chief administrative officer of a state-supported institution of higher education, the chief administrative officer, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility of the institution, may require that any person on the campus or facility present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official institutional identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution.(b)  If any person refuses or fails upon request to present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution, and if it reasonably appears that the person has no legitimate reason to be on the campus or facility, the person may be ejected from the campus or facility.
Sec. 51.233.  WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT TO REMAIN ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, may notify a person that consent to remain on the campus or facility under the control of the chief administrative officer has been withdrawn whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility.(b)  In no case shall consent be withdrawn for longer than 14 days from the date on which consent was initially withdrawn.(c)  Notification shall be in accordance with procedures set out in Section 51.234 of this code.
Sec. 51.234.  NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  When the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, decides to withdraw consent for any person to remain on the campus or facility, he shall notify that person in writing that consent to remain is withdrawn.  The written notice must contain all of the following:(1)  that consent to remain on the campus has been withdrawn and the number of days for which consent has been withdrawn, not to exceed 14;(2)  the name and job title of the person withdrawing consent, along with an address where the person withdrawing consent can be contacted during regular working hours;(3)  a brief statement of the activity or activities resulting in the withdrawal of consent;  and(4)  notification that the person from whom consent has been withdrawn is entitled to a hearing on the withdrawal not later than three days from the date of receipt by the chief administrative officer of a request for a hearing.
Sec. 51.236.  CONFIRMATION OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, a person designated by him for this purpose, upon reviewing the written report described in Section 51.235, finds that there was reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility, and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility, he may enter written confirmation upon the report of the action taken by the officer or employee.(b)  If the chief administrative officer, or in his absence, the person designated by him, does not confirm the action of the officer or employee within 24 hours after the time that consent was withdrawn, the action of the officer or employee shall be deemed void and of no force or effect, except that any arrest made during the period shall not for this reason be deemed not to have been made for probable cause.
Sec. 51.237.  REQUEST FOR HEARING.  (a)  A person from whom consent has been withdrawn may submit a written request for a hearing on the withdrawal to the chief administrative officer within the 14-day period.  The written request must state the address to which notice of hearing is to be sent.  The chief administrative officer shall grant a hearing not later than three days from the date of receipt of the request and shall immediately mail a written notice of the time, place, and date of the hearing to the person.(b)  The hearing shall be held before a duly designated discipline committee or authorized hearing officer of the institution in accordance with Section 51.243.  In no instance shall the person issuing the withdrawal notice or causing it to be issued serve on any committee where the validity of his order of withdrawal is in question.
Sec. 51.239.  ENTERING OR REMAINING ON CAMPUS AFTER WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  Any person who has been notified by the chief administrative officer of a campus or facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or by an officer or employee designated by the chief administrative officer to maintain order on the campus or facility, that consent to remain on the campus or facility has been withdrawn pursuant to Section 51.233, who has not had consent reinstated, and who willfully and knowingly enters or remains upon the campus or facility during the period for which consent has been withdrawn, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(b)  This section does not apply to any person who enters or remains on the campus or facility for the sole purpose of applying to the chief administrative officer or authorized officer or employee for the reinstatement of consent or for the sole purpose of attending a hearing on the withdrawal.
Sec. 51.241.  STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES BARRED FROM CAMPUS AFTER SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL.  (a)  Every student or employee who has been suspended or dismissed from a state-supported institution of higher education after a hearing, in accordance with procedures established by the institution, for disrupting the orderly operation of the campus or facility of the institution, as a condition of the suspension or dismissal, may be denied access to the campus or facility, or both, of the institution for the period of suspension, and in the case of dismissal, for a period not to exceed one year.(b)  A person who has been notified by personal service of the suspension or dismissal and condition and who willfully and knowingly enters upon the campus or facility of the institution to which he has been denied access, without the express written permission of the chief administrative officer of the campus or facility, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(c)  Knowledge shall be presumed if personal service has been given as prescribed in Subsection (b) of this section.
Sec. 51.243.  REQUIRED HEARING PROCEDURES.  A person from whom consent to remain on the campus of a state-supported institution of higher education has been withdrawn in accordance with Section 51.233 is entitled, in addition to the procedures set out in Section 51.234, to the following:(1)  to be represented by counsel;(2)  to the right to call and examine witnesses and to cross-examine adverse witnesses;(3)  to have all matters upon which the decision may be based introduced into evidence at the hearing in his presence;(4)  to have the decision based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing;(5)  to prohibit the introduction of statements made against him unless he has been advised of their content and the names of the persons who made them, and has been given the opportunity to rebut unfavorable inferences that might otherwise be drawn;  and(6)  to have all findings made at the hearing be final, subject only to his right to appeal to the president and the governing board of the institution.
SUBCHAPTER E-2.  REPORTING INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.251.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" mean dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as applicable, that an institution of higher education is required to report under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)).(3)  "Employee of a postsecondary educational institution" does not include a student enrolled at the institution.(4)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(5)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.252.  REPORTING REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution who, in the course and scope of employment, witnesses or receives information regarding the occurrence of an incident that the employee reasonably believes constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who was a student enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the incident shall promptly report the incident to the institution's Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c) or (c-1), the report must include all information concerning the incident known to the reporting person that is relevant to the investigation and, if applicable, redress of the incident, including whether an alleged victim has expressed a desire for confidentiality in reporting the incident.(c)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution designated by the institution as a person with whom students may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking or who receives information regarding such an incident under circumstances that render the employee's communications confidential or privileged under other law shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include any information that would violate a student's expectation of privacy.  This subsection does not affect the employee's duty to report an incident under any other law.(c-1)  A campus peace officer employed by a postsecondary educational institution who receives information regarding an incident described by Subsection (a) from an alleged victim who chooses to complete a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure, shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include the victim's name, phone number, address, or other information that may directly or indirectly reveal the victim's identity.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), a person is not required to make a report under this section concerning:(1)  an incident in which the person was a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking; or(2)  an incident of which the person received information due to a disclosure made at a sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking public awareness event sponsored by a postsecondary educational institution or by a student organization affiliated with the institution.
Sec. 51.253.  ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.  (a)  Not less than once every three months, the Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's chief executive officer a written report on the reports received under Section 51.252, including information regarding:(1)  the investigation of those reports;(2)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports; and(3)  the reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any.(b)  The Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall immediately report to the institution's chief executive officer an incident reported to the coordinator under Section 51.252 if the coordinator has cause to believe that the safety of any person is in imminent danger as a result of the incident.(c)  Subject to Subsection (d), at least once during each fall or spring semester, the chief executive officer of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's governing body and post on the institution's Internet website a report concerning the reports received under Section 51.252.  The report:(1)  may not identify any person; and(2)  must include:(A)  the number of reports received under Section 51.252;(B)  the number of investigations conducted as a result of those reports;(C)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports;(D)  the number of those reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any; and(E)  any disciplinary actions taken under Section 51.255.(d)  If for any semester a postsecondary educational institution has fewer than 1,500 enrolled students, the chief executive officer of the institution shall submit and post a report required under Subsection (c) for that semester only if more than five reports were received under Section 51.252 during that semester.
Sec. 51.254.  IMMUNITIES.  (a)  A person acting in good faith who reports or assists in the investigation of a report of an incident described by Section 51.252(a) or who testifies or otherwise participates in a disciplinary process or judicial proceeding arising from a report of such an incident:(1)  is immune from civil liability, and from criminal liability for offenses punishable by fine only, that might otherwise be incurred or imposed as a result of those actions; and(2)  may not be subjected to any disciplinary action by the postsecondary educational institution at which the person is enrolled or employed for any violation by the person of the institution's code of conduct reasonably related to the incident for which suspension or expulsion from the institution is not a possible punishment.(b)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a person who perpetrates or assists in the perpetration of the incident reported under Section 51.252.
Sec. 51.256.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  Unless waived in writing by the alleged victim, the identity of an alleged victim of an incident reported under Section 51.252:(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  persons employed by or under contract with the postsecondary educational institution to which the report is made who are necessary to conduct an investigation of the report or any related hearings;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report;(C)  the person or persons alleged to have perpetrated the incident, to the extent required by other law; or(D)  potential witnesses to the incident as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report.(b)  A disclosure under Subsection (a) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed as prohibiting a victim from making a report to a law enforcement agency using a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.258.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  The chief executive officer of each postsecondary educational institution shall annually certify in writing to the coordinating board that the institution is in substantial compliance with this subchapter.(b)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(c)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (b), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (b) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(e)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (b) using state or federal money.(f)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(g)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the calendar year preceding the date of the report.
SUBCHAPTER E-3.  SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.281.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" have the meanings assigned by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)(6)(A)).(3)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(4)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.282.  POLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKING.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall adopt a policy on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking applicable to each student enrolled at and each employee of the institution.  The policy must:(1)  include:(A)  definitions of prohibited behavior;(B)  sanctions for violations;(C)  the protocol for reporting and responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking;(D)  interim measures to protect victims of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking during the pendency of the institution's disciplinary process, including protection from retaliation, and any other accommodations available to those victims at the institution; and(E)  a statement regarding:(i)  the importance of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking going to a hospital for treatment and preservation of evidence, if applicable, as soon as practicable after the incident;(ii)  the right of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to report the incident to the institution and to receive a prompt and equitable resolution of the report; and(iii)  the right of a victim of a crime to choose whether to report the crime to law enforcement, to be assisted by the institution in reporting the crime to law enforcement, or to decline to report the crime to law enforcement; and(2)  be approved by the institution's governing board before final adoption by the institution.(b)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall make the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy available to students, faculty, and staff members by:(1)  including the policy in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook; and(2)  creating and maintaining a web page dedicated solely to the policy that is easily accessible through a clearly identifiable link on the institution's Internet website home page.(c)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall require each entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student to attend an orientation on the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy before or during the first semester or term in which the student is enrolled at the institution.  The institution shall establish the format and content of the orientation.  The orientation:(1)  may be provided online; and(2)  must include the statements described by Subsection (a)(1)(E).(d)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and implement a comprehensive prevention and outreach program on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The program must:(1)  address a range of strategies to prevent sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking, including a victim empowerment program, a public awareness campaign, primary prevention, bystander intervention, and risk reduction; and(2)  include providing to students information regarding the protocol for reporting incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), including the name, office location, and contact information of the institution's Title IX coordinator, by:(A)  e-mailing the information to each student at the beginning of each semester or other academic term; and(B)  including the information in the orientation required under Subsection (c).(e)  As part of the protocol for responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  to the greatest extent practicable based on the number of counselors employed by the institution, ensure that each alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and any other person who reports such an incident are offered counseling provided by a counselor who does not provide counseling to any other person involved in the incident; and(2)  notwithstanding any other law, allow an alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to drop a course in which both parties are enrolled without any academic penalty.(f)  Each biennium, each postsecondary educational institution shall review the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy and, with approval of the institution's governing board, revise the policy as necessary.
Sec. 51.2825.  CERTAIN DUTIES OF CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER INVESTIGATING FAMILY VIOLENCE, STALKING, HARASSMENT, OR TERRORISTIC THREAT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Campus peace officer" means a peace officer commissioned under Section 51.203 or 51.212.(2)  "Family violence" has the meaning assigned by Section 71.004, Family Code.(3)  "Harassment" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.07, Penal Code.(4)  "Stalking" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.072, Penal Code.(5)  "Terroristic threat" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 22.07, Penal Code.(b)  A campus peace officer who responds to a disturbance call that may involve family violence or investigates an allegation of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat shall advise any possible adult victim of all reasonable means to prevent the occurrence of further offenses, including by providing the written notice adopted by the Health and Human Services Commission under Section 51A.003, Human Resources Code.  In addition to the required notice under this subsection, a campus peace officer shall provide to the possible victim any available written information regarding campus and local resources for victims of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat.
Sec. 51.284.  AMNESTY FOR STUDENTS REPORTING CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a) A postsecondary educational institution may not take any disciplinary action against a student enrolled at the institution who in good faith reports to the institution being the victim of, or a witness to, an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking for a violation by the student of the institution's code of conduct occurring at or near the time of the incident, regardless of the location at which the incident occurred or the outcome of the institution's disciplinary process regarding the incident, if any.(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may investigate to determine whether a report of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking was made in good faith.(c)  A determination that a student is entitled to amnesty under Subsection (a) is final and may not be revoked.(d)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a student who reports the student's own commission or assistance in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.(e)  This section may not be construed to limit a postsecondary educational institution's ability to provide amnesty from application of the institution's policies in circumstances not described by Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.285.  VICTIM REQUEST NOT TO INVESTIGATE.  (a)  If an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident, the institution may investigate the alleged incident in a manner that complies with the confidentiality requirements under Section 51.291.  In determining whether to investigate the alleged incident, the institution shall consider:(1)  the seriousness of the alleged incident;(2)  whether the institution has received other reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed by the alleged perpetrator or perpetrators;(3)  whether the alleged incident poses a risk of harm to others; and(4)  any other factors the institution determines relevant.(b)  If a postsecondary educational institution decides not to investigate an alleged incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking based on the alleged victim's request not to investigate, the institution shall take any steps the institution determines necessary to protect the health and safety of the institution's community in relation to the alleged incident.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution shall inform an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking who requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident of the institution's decision whether to investigate the alleged incident.
Sec. 51.286.  DISCIPLINARY PROCESS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.  A postsecondary educational institution that initiates a disciplinary process concerning an allegation that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking shall:(1)  provide to the student and the alleged victim a prompt and equitable opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence relevant to the alleged violation during the disciplinary process;(2)  ensure that both the student and the alleged victim have reasonable and equitable access to all evidence relevant to the alleged violation in the institution's possession, including any statements made by the alleged victim or by other persons, information stored electronically, written or electronic communications, social media posts, or physical evidence, redacted as necessary to comply with any applicable federal or state law regarding confidentiality; and(3)  take reasonable steps to protect the student and the alleged victim from retaliation and harassment during the pendency of the disciplinary process.
Sec. 51.287.  STUDENT WITHDRAWAL OR GRADUATION PENDING DISCIPLINARY CHARGES.  (a)  If a student withdraws or graduates from a postsecondary educational institution pending a disciplinary charge alleging that the student violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, the institution:(1)  may not end the disciplinary process or issue a transcript to the student until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility; and(2)  shall expedite the institution's disciplinary process as necessary to accommodate both the student's and the alleged victim's interest in a speedy resolution.(b)  On request by another postsecondary educational institution, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide to the requesting institution information relating to a determination by the institution that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.
Sec. 51.290.  RESPONSIBLE AND CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE; STUDENT ADVOCATE.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  designate:(A)  one or more employees to act as responsible employees for purposes of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Section 1681 et seq.); and(B)  one or more employees as persons to whom students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking; and(2)  inform each student enrolled at the institution of the responsible and confidential employees designated under Subdivision (1).(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may designate one or more students enrolled at the institution as student advocates to whom other students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The institution shall notify each student enrolled at the institution of the student advocates designated under this subsection.(c)  A confidential employee designated under Subsection (a)(1)(B) or a student advocate designated under Subsection (b) may not disclose any communication made by a student to the employee or advocate unless the student consents to the disclosure or the employee or advocate is required to make the disclosure under state or federal law.
Sec. 51.291.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  The protections provided by this section apply to:(1)  an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution;(2)  a person who reports to a postsecondary educational institution an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, who sought guidance from the institution concerning such an incident, or who participated in the institution's investigation of such an incident; and(3)  a person who is alleged in a report made to a postsecondary educational institution to have committed or assisted in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking if, after completing an investigation, the institution determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(b)  Unless waived in writing by the person, the identity of a person described by Subsection (a):(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  the postsecondary educational institution to which the report described by Subsection (a) is made as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report described by Subsection (a); or(C)  a health care provider in an emergency situation, as determined necessary by the institution.(c)  A disclosure under Subsection (b) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(d)  Information regarding an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking disclosed to a health care provider or other medical provider employed by a postsecondary educational institution is confidential and may be shared by the provider only with the victim's consent. The provider must provide aggregate data or other nonidentifying information regarding those incidents to the institution's Title IX coordinator.
Sec. 51.292.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(b)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (a), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (a) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (a) using state or federal money.(e)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(f)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the preceding year.
SUBCHAPTER F. REQUIRED AND ELECTIVE COURSESSec. 51.301.  GOVERNMENT OR POLITICAL SCIENCE.  (a)  Every college and university receiving state support or state aid from public funds shall give a course of instruction in government or political science which includes consideration of the Constitution of the United States and the constitutions of the states, with special emphasis on that of Texas.  This course shall have a credit value of not less than six semester hours or its equivalent.  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for such a course.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or in part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by the student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(b)  The requirement of Subsection (a) that the required course must include special emphasis on the Texas Constitution does not apply to a degree granted on completion of an academic program offered by a medical and dental unit, as that term is defined by Section 61.003, to a student who is a member of the armed forces of the United States, including the reserves or national guard, if:(1)  the program is operated by the medical and dental unit under contract with the United States Army;(2)  the program requires less than two years of residency in this state;  and(3)  the principal participants in the program are military personnel stationed outside this state.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (a) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Subsection (d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  The American Way course authorized by Subsection (c)(2) must be designed to provide a foreign student with a familiarity and understanding of United States government and civic life and their sources, development, and character.  The course must concentrate on important texts, including the United States Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, on the works and contributions of influential authors, political and cultural leaders, and other important figures, and on important events and developments in United States history.  The course must cover important developments in human and civil rights, including the civil rights movement and the history of women's rights.  The course must cover the history and development of the State of Texas and its place in United States history and culture.  The course must consist of four semester credit hours, with one semester credit hour in practicum activities intended to provide the student with experience in the three branches of government through participation at the federal, state, or local level.  The course may not be taken for course credit by a student other than a student described by Subsection (c).(e)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.302.  AMERICAN OR TEXAS HISTORY.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for six semester hours or its equivalent in American History.  A student is entitled to submit as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent in Texas History in partial satisfaction of this requirement.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university, or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by a student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (b) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Section 51.301(d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  A college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds that does not offer at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History to undergraduate students shall enter into an agreement with another postsecondary educational institution to offer to the college or university's undergraduate students at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History.
Sec. 51.3041.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall consider, in determining whether to award to a student course credit toward a degree or certificate offered by the institution for the student's completion of certain military training:(1)  any official military record presented to the institution by the student that:(A)  describes the substance of the training completed by the student; and(B)  verifies the student's successful completion of that training; and(2)  whether the substance of that training satisfies the purpose of the course for which the student seeks credit as described in the institution's course catalog.(c)  This section applies to a student who has completed certain military training and is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242.
Sec. 51.3042.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall award to an undergraduate student who is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242, course credit for all physical education courses required by the institution for an undergraduate degree and for additional semester credit hours, not to exceed 12, that may be applied to satisfy any elective course requirements for the student's degree program for courses outside the student's major or minor if the student:(1)  graduated from a public or private high school accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; and(2)  is an honorably discharged former member of the armed forces of the United States who:(A)  completed at least two years of service in the armed forces; or(B)  was discharged because of a disability.(c)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from awarding additional course credit for a student's military service as the institution considers appropriate.(d)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's military service and of the student's military discharge status.
Sec. 51.305.  PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The coordinating board by rule shall:(1)  require a general academic teaching institution to offer training in personal financial literacy to provide students of the institution with the knowledge and skills necessary as self-supporting adults to make critical decisions relating to personal financial matters; and(2)  determine the topics to be covered by the training, which may include budgeting, credit cards, spending, saving, loan repayment and consolidation, taxes, retirement planning, insurance, and financing of health care and other benefits.(c)  The coordinating board by rule may provide for the training required under this section to be offered in an online course.(d)  Expired.
Sec. 51.309.  PAIN TREATMENT MEDICAL EDUCATION COURSE WORK.  (a)  Each medical school shall determine the extent to which pain treatment medical education course work is meeting the instructional elements described in Subsection (b) and is offered to all students enrolled in medical schools.(b)  Pain treatment medical education course work should include instruction in:(1)  pain assessment in adults, children, and special populations, including elderly and impaired individuals;(2)  pain anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology, and pharmacology of opioid and nonopioid analgesic drugs, including pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics;(3)  the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of drug administration, side effects, treatment outcome, and the outcome of behavioral and other psychological therapy for pain;(4)  the psychological, social, economic, and emotional impact of malignant and nonmalignant acute and chronic pain on patients;(5)  indications for and outcomes of anesthetic and neurosurgical pain-relieving techniques, including nerve blocks and neuroaugmentative and neuroablative techniques;  and(6)  the outcome of treatment of pain emanating from a damaged nervous system and neuropathic pain.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.02, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.332.  APPLICABILITY.  This subchapter does not apply to:(1)  a student who has graduated with an associate or baccalaureate degree from an institution of higher education;(2)  a student who transfers to an institution of higher education from a private or independent institution of higher education or an accredited out-of-state institution of higher education and who has satisfactorily completed college-level coursework;(3)  a student who is enrolled in a certificate program of one year or less at a public junior college, a public technical institute, or a public state college;(4)  a student who is serving on active duty as a member of:(A)  the armed forces of the United States; or(B)  the Texas National Guard;(5)  a student who is currently serving as and, for at least the three-year period preceding enrollment, has served as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States; or(6)  a student who on or after August 1, 1990, was honorably discharged, retired, or released from:(A)  active duty as a member of the armed forces of the United States or the Texas National Guard; or(B)  service as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.05, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.06, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.336.  DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may refer a student to developmental coursework, including basic academic skills education, as considered necessary by the institution to address a student's deficiencies in the student's readiness to perform freshman-level academic coursework, except that the institution may not require enrollment in developmental coursework with respect to a student previously determined under Section 51.338(d) or by any institution of higher education to have met college-readiness standards. (b)  An institution of higher education that requires a student to enroll in developmental coursework must offer a range of developmental coursework, including online coursework, or instructional support that includes the integration of technology to efficiently address the particular developmental needs of the student.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall develop and implement for developmental coursework, other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education, developmental education using a corequisite model under which a student concurrently enrolls in a developmental education course and a freshman-level course in the same subject area for each subject area for which the student is referred to developmental coursework.  Each institution shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the institution's students enrolled in developmental coursework other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education are enrolled in developmental coursework described by this subsection.(d)  If a student fails to satisfactorily complete a freshman-level course described by Subsection (c), the institution of higher education shall: (1)  review the plan developed for the student under Section 51.335(a) and, if necessary, work with the student to revise the plan; and(2)  offer to the student a range of competency-based education programs to assist the student in becoming ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework in the applicable subject area.(e)  An institution of higher education must base developmental coursework on research-based best practices that include the following components:(1)  assessment;(2)  differentiated placement and instruction;(3)  faculty development;(4)  support services;(5)  program evaluation;(6)  integration of technology with an emphasis on instructional support programs;(7)  non-course-based developmental education interventions; and(8)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), course pairing of developmental education courses with credit-bearing courses.(f)  To allow a student to complete any necessary developmental coursework in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, the board shall encourage institutions of higher education to offer various types of developmental coursework that address various levels of deficiency in readiness to perform college coursework for which course credit may be earned, as determined on the basis of assessments as described by Section 51.334.  The types of developmental coursework may include:(1)  course-based programs;(2)  non-course-based programs, such as advising programs;(3)  module format programs;(4)  competency-based education programs;(5)  basic academic skills education, if applicable to the student; and(6)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), programs under which the student is pairing or taking concurrently a developmental education course and another course in the same subject area for which course credit may be earned.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.07, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.08, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.338.  EXEMPTIONS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may exempt a non-degree-seeking or non-certificate-seeking student from the requirements of this subchapter.(b)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on the SAT or ACT is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  An exemption under this subsection is effective for the five-year period following the date a student takes the test and achieves the standard set by the board.(c)  A student who has achieved scores set by the board on the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The exemption is effective for the three-year period following the date a student takes the last assessment instrument for purposes of this subchapter and achieves the standard set by the board.  This subsection does not apply during any period for which the board designates the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) as the primary assessment instrument under this subchapter, except that the three-year period described by this subsection remains in effect for students who qualify for an exemption under this subsection before that period.(d)  A student who has demonstrated the performance standard for college readiness as provided by Section 28.008 on the postsecondary readiness assessment instruments adopted under Section 39.0238 for Algebra II and English III, as that section existed before repeal by H.B. 4545, Acts of the 87th Legislature, Regular Session, 2021, is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to those content areas.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.(e)  A student who successfully completes a college preparatory course under Section 28.014 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to the content area of the course, provided that the student satisfies the requirements of Subsection (f) of this section.  The exemption is effective for the two-year period following the date the student graduates from high school.  The exemption applies only at the institution of higher education that partners with the school district in which the student is enrolled to provide the course, except that the commissioner of higher education by rule may determine the manner in which the exemption may be applied to institutions of higher education other than the partnering institution.(f)  A student receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) must enroll in a college-level course in the exempted content area during the student's first year of enrollment at an institution of higher education occurring after the student qualifies for the exemption. If the student earns a grade below a "C" for the course, the institution shall advise the student of non-course-based options for attaining college readiness, such as tutoring or accelerated learning.(g)  The board shall:(1)  collect and analyze data regarding the effectiveness of college preparatory courses provided under Section 28.014 in assisting students to become ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework, as measured by the rate at which students receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) successfully complete the course described by Subsection (f); and(2)  in November of each even-numbered year, submit a report of the board's findings to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education, and each institution of higher education and school district that offers a college preparatory course under Section 28.014.(h)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on a high school equivalency examination administered under Section 7.111 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.09, eff. June 15, 2017.Amended by: Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1086 (H.B. 1891), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2019.Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 910 (H.B. 4545), Sec. 9, eff. June 16, 2021.
Sec. 51.340.  FUNDING.  (a)  The legislature shall appropriate money for approved non-degree-credit developmental courses, including basic academic skills education, except that legislative appropriations may not be used for developmental coursework taken by a student in excess of:(1)  for a general academic teaching institution:(A)  9 semester credit hours; or(B)  18 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages; and(2)  for a public junior college, public technical institute, or public state college:(A)  18 semester credit hours; or(B)  27 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages.(b)  The board may develop formulas to supplement the funding of developmental academic programs by institutions of higher education, including formulas for supplementing the funding of non-course-based programs. The board may develop a performance funding formula by which institutions of higher education may receive additional funding for each student who completes the success initiative established under this subchapter and then successfully completes college coursework. The legislature may appropriate the money required to provide the additional funding under those formulas.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.11, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.15, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.352.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS.  (a)  It is the policy of this state that the governing boards of institutions of higher education, being composed of lay members, shall exercise the traditional and time-honored role for such boards as their role has evolved in the United States and shall constitute the keystone of the governance structure.  In this regard each governing board:(1)  is expected to preserve institutional independence and to defend its right to manage its own affairs through its chosen administrators and employees;(2)  shall enhance the public image of each institution under its governance;(3)  shall interpret the community to the campus and interpret the campus to the community;(4)  shall nurture each institution under its governance to the end that each institution achieves its full potential within its role and mission;  and(5)  shall insist on clarity of focus and mission of each institution under its governance.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall provide the policy direction for each institution of higher education under its management and control.(c)  In making or confirming appointments to a governing board, the governor and senate shall ensure that the appointee has the background and experience suitable for performing the statutory responsibility of a member of the governing board.(d)  In addition to powers and duties specifically granted by this code or other law, each governing board shall:(1)  establish, for each institution under its control and management, goals consistent with the role and mission of the institution;(2)  appoint the chancellor or other chief executive officer of the system, if the board governs a university system;(3)  appoint the president or other chief executive officer of each institution under the board's control and management and evaluate the chief executive officer of each component institution and assist the officer in the achievement of performance goals;(4)  set campus admission standards consistent with the role and mission of the institution and considering the admission standards of similar institutions nationwide having a similar role and mission, as determined by the coordinating board;  and(5)  ensure that its formal position on matters of importance to the institutions under its governance is made clear to the coordinating board when such matters are under consideration by the coordinating board.(e)  Each member of a governing board has the legal responsibilities of a fiduciary in the management of funds under the control of institutions subject to the board's control and management.(f)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of that institution shall adopt a policy to enhance the transfer of students based on the recommendations of the permanent advisory committee under Section 51.3521 of this code.
Sec. 51.3521.  PERMANENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES.  (a)  Permanent advisory committees are established.(b)  Each committee consists of the president, or the president's designee, of each general academic teaching institution and of each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  Each committee shall biennially elect a presiding officer.(d)  Each committee may elect other officers.(e)  Each committee shall adopt rules to govern the time and place of meetings and the transaction of business.(f)  Each committee shall:(1)  periodically study regional higher education needs in this state;  and(2)  make recommendations to the governing boards of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college represented regarding degree programs, core curricula, and joint faculty appointments to enhance the transfer of students and the coordinated working relationships between those institutions.
Sec. 51.3525.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS REGARDING DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION INITIATIVES.  (a)  In this section, "diversity, equity, and inclusion office" means an office, division, or other unit of an institution of higher education established for the purpose of:(1)  influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes in accordance with any applicable state and federal antidiscrimination laws;(2)  promoting differential treatment of or providing special benefits to individuals on the basis of race, color, or ethnicity;(3)  promoting policies or procedures designed or implemented in reference to race, color, or ethnicity, other than policies or procedures approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; or(4)  conducting trainings, programs, or activities designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation, other than trainings, programs, or activities developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall ensure that each unit of the institution:(1)  does not, except as required by federal law:(A)  establish or maintain a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(B)  hire or assign an employee of the institution or contract with a third party to perform the duties of a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(C)  compel, require, induce, or solicit any person to provide a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement or give preferential consideration to any person based on the provision of a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement;(D)  give preference on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin to an applicant for employment, an employee, or a participant in any function of the institution; or(E)  require as a condition of enrolling at the institution or performing any institution function any person to participate in diversity, equity, and inclusion training, which:(i)  includes a training, program, or activity designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation; and(ii)  does not include a training, program, or activity developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; and(2)  adopts policies and procedures for appropriately disciplining, including by termination, an employee or contractor of the institution who engages in conduct in violation of Subdivision (1).(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed to limit or prohibit an institution of higher education or an employee of an institution of higher education from, for purposes of applying for a grant or complying with the terms of accreditation by an accrediting agency, submitting to the grantor or accrediting agency a statement that:(1)  highlights the institution's work in supporting:(A)  first-generation college students;(B)  low-income students; or(C)  underserved student populations; or(2)  certifies compliance with state and federal antidiscrimination laws.(d)  Subsection (b)(1) may not be construed to apply to:(1)  academic course instruction;(2)  scholarly research or a creative work by an institution of higher education's students, faculty, or other research personnel or the dissemination of that research or work;(3)  an activity of a student organization registered with or recognized by an institution of higher education;(4)  guest speakers or performers on short-term engagements;(5)  a policy, practice, procedure, program, or activity to enhance student academic achievement or postgraduate outcomes that is designed and implemented without regard to race, sex, color, or ethnicity;(6)  data collection; or(7)  student recruitment or admissions.(e)  An institution of higher education may not spend money appropriated to the institution for a state fiscal year until the governing board of the institution submits to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board a report certifying the board's compliance with this section during the preceding state fiscal year.(f)  In the interim between each regular session of the legislature, the governing board of each institution of higher education, or the board's designee, shall testify before the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education at a public hearing of the committee regarding the board's compliance with this section.(g)  The state auditor shall periodically conduct a compliance audit of each institution of higher education to determine whether the institution has spent state money in violation of this section.  The state auditor shall adopt a schedule by which the state auditor will conduct compliance audits under this subsection.  The schedule must ensure that each institution of higher education is audited at least once every four years.(h)  If the state auditor determines pursuant to a compliance audit conducted under Subsection (g) that an institution of higher education has spent state money in violation of this section, the institution:(1)  must cure the violation not later than the 180th day after the date on which the determination is made; and(2)  if the institution fails to cure the violation during the period described by Subdivision (1), is ineligible to receive formula funding increases, institutional enhancements, or exceptional items during the state fiscal biennium immediately following the state fiscal biennium in which the determination is made.(i)  A student or employee of an institution of higher education who is required to participate in training in violation of Subsection (b)(1)(E) may bring an action against the institution for injunctive or declaratory relief.(j)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in coordination with institutions of higher education, shall conduct a biennial study to identify the impact of the implementation of this section on the application rate, acceptance rate, matriculation rate, retention rate, grade point average, and graduation rate of students at institutions of higher education, disaggregated by race, sex, and ethnicity.  Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, the coordinating board shall submit to the legislature a report on the results of the study and any recommendations for legislative or other action.  This subsection expires September 1, 2029.
Sec. 51.355.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; UNIVERSITY SYSTEM BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit.(b)  The chancellor of each university system shall develop a uniform application form to be used by each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in the university system to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in a university system shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the chancellor of the university system.  From among those applicants, the chancellor shall select two or more applicants as the university system's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student governments and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the system for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the chancellor, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the system as described by this subsection.(d)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the university system and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution or unit for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution or unit for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution or unit for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution or unit in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution or unit for the following fall semester.(d-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(e)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the system for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the system, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(f)  The student government of the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit at which a current student regent was enrolled at the time of the student regent's appointment may not solicit applicants for the position of student regent for the next regular term of the position.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for a university system shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the chancellor of the system.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (d-1) from the president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.356.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution that is not a part of a university system.(b)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  The president of a general academic teaching institution shall develop a uniform application form to be used to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(d)  Not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of the general academic teaching institution shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the president of the institution.  From among those applicants, the president shall select two or more applicants as the institution's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student government and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the institution for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the president, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of the institution as described by this subsection.(e)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in the general academic teaching institution and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution for the following fall semester.(e-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(f)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the institution for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the institution, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for an institution shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the president of the institution.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (e-1) from the president of the institution that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.402.  REPORT OF INSTITUTIONAL AND ACADEMIC DUTIES.  (a)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, in cooperation with governing boards, institutional officials, and faculty representatives of general academic institutions of higher education, shall develop and recommend general policies and standard reports for academic faculty workloads and services.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education in the state shall adopt rules and regulations concerning faculty academic workloads.  In adopting rules under this subsection, each institution shall recognize that classroom teaching, basic and applied research, and professional development are important elements of faculty academic workloads by giving appropriate weight to each activity when determining the standards for faculty academic workload.  An institution may give the same or different weight to each activity and to other activities recognized by the institution as important elements of faculty academic workloads. (c)  Within 30 days of the end of each academic year, the institution shall file with its governing board a report, by department, of the academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty during the nine-month academic year, showing evidence of compliance with requirements established by the governing board.  The report of academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty shall indicate all appointments held by the faculty member in the employing institution, the salary paid to each appointment, the percent of time of each appointment, and the source of funds from which salary payments were made.  Teaching responsibilities in each workload standard shall be in proportion to the portion of salary paid from funds appropriated for instructional purposes.(d)  The institutional head of each higher education institution shall designate the officer of his staff who will monitor workloads, prepare and review appropriate workload reports, and submit the reports to the institutional head for his certification or approval and comments as may be appropriate.
Sec. 51.403.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR COURSES; REPORTS OF STUDENT ENROLLMENT AND ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE.  (a)  All higher education institutions of this state shall offer only such courses and teach such classes as are economically justified in the considered judgment of the appropriate governing board.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(13), eff. June 17, 2011.(e)  Under guidelines established by the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, and the State Board of Education, postsecondary institutions shall report student performance during the first year enrolled after graduation from high school to the high school or junior college last attended.  This report shall include, but not be limited to, appropriate student test scores, a description of developmental courses required, and the student's grade point average.  Appropriate safeguards for student privacy shall be included in the rules for implementation of this subsection.
Sec. 51.4032.  ANNUAL REPORT OF PARTICIPATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION.  Not later than December 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit as defined in  Section 61.003 shall provide to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and shall publish on the institution's website a report describing the composition of the institution's entering class of students.  The report must include a demographic breakdown of the class, including a breakdown by race, ethnicity, economic status, and high school class standing.  A report submitted by a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit as defined in Section 61.003 must include separate demographic breakdowns of the students admitted under Sections 51.803, 51.804, and 51.805 and a description of any plans, policies, or programs developed or implemented by the institution to recruit and retain students from underrepresented groups such as racial or ethnic minority groups.
Sec. 51.4033.  REPORT OF NONTRANSFERABLE CREDIT.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report describing any courses in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board for which a student who transfers to the institution from another institution of higher education is not granted:(1)  academic credit at the receiving institution; or(2)  if the student has declared a major and has not changed majors, academic credit toward the student's major at the receiving institution.(b)  A report required by this section must indicate:(1)  the course name and type;(2)  which institution of higher education provided academic credit for the course; and(3)  the reason why the receiving institution did not grant academic credit for the course as described by Subsection (a), including whether the institution complied with the dispute resolution process under Section 61.826.
Sec. 51.4034.  REPORT OF COURSES TAKEN AT JUNIOR COLLEGES.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each public junior college shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report on courses taken by students who, during the preceding academic year, transferred to a general academic teaching institution or earned an associate degree at the college.(b)  A report required by this section must include the total number of:(1)  courses attempted and completed at the college, including the total number of semester credit hours for those courses, disaggregated by whether the course is in:(A)  the Workforce Education Course Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board; or(B)  the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(2)  courses attempted and completed at the college that are not in the recommended core curriculum developed by the coordinating board under Section 61.822; and(3)  dual credit courses, including courses for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008, attempted and completed at the college.
Sec. 51.406.  EXPIRATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  In this section, "university system" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To the extent that any of the following laws require reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education, a university system or institution of higher education is not required to make the report on or after September 1, 2013, unless legislation enacted by the 83rd Legislature that becomes law expressly requires the institution or system to make the report:(1)  Section 7.109;(2)  Section 33.083;(3)  Section 59.07;(4)  Section 130.251;(5)  Section 325.007, Government Code;(6)  Section 669.003, Government Code;(7)  Section 2005.007, Government Code;(8)  Section 2054.097, Government Code;(9)  Chapter 2114, Government Code; and(10)  Section 2205.041, Government Code.(c)  A rule or policy of a state agency, including the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in effect on June 1, 2011, that requires reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education has no effect on or after September 1, 2013, unless the rule or policy is affirmatively and formally readopted before that date by formal administrative rule published in the Texas Register and adopted in compliance with Chapter 2001, Government Code.  This subsection does not apply to:(1)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is listed in Subsection (b);(2)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is repealed on or before September 1, 2013, by legislation enacted by the legislature that becomes law; or(3)  a report required under any of the following provisions:(A)  Article 59.06(g)(1), Code of Criminal Procedure;(B)  Section 51.005;(C)  Section 51.0051;(D)  Subchapter F-1 of this chapter;(E)  Section 51.402;(F)  Section 56.039;(G)  Section 61.059;(H)   Section 62.098;(I)  Section 411.187(b), Government Code;(J)  Subchapter C, Chapter 606, Government Code;(K)  Subchapter E, Chapter 815, Government Code; or(L)  Chapter 1551, Insurance Code.(d)  At least every five years, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall reevaluate its rules and policies to ensure the continuing need for the data requests the coordinating board imposes on university systems, institutions of higher education, or private or independent institutions of higher education.  The coordinating board shall consult with those entities to identify unnecessary data requests and shall eliminate data requests identified as unnecessary from its rules and policies.  In this subsection, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(e)  This section does not apply to a request for information by the state auditor.
SUBCHAPTER I.  TEXTBOOKSSec. 51.451.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "College bookstore" means a bookstore that is:(A)  operated by an institution of higher education; or(B)  in a contractual relationship or otherwise affiliated with an institution of higher education.(2)  "Custom textbook" means a textbook that is compiled by a publisher at the direction of a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education and that may include items such as selections from original instructor materials, previously copyrighted publisher materials, copyrighted third-party works, or elements unique to a specific institution.(3)  "Faculty member" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.917.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(4-a)  "Open educational resource" means a teaching, learning, or research resource that is in the public domain or has been released under an intellectual property license that permits the free use, adaptation, and redistribution of the resource by any person.  The term may include full course curricula, course materials, modules, textbooks, media, assessments, software, and any other tools, materials, or techniques, whether digital or otherwise, used to support access to knowledge.(4-b)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Supplemental material," with respect to a textbook, means instructional material developed to accompany the textbook, including printed materials, computer disks, website access, and electronically distributed materials, other than material that is part of an integrated textbook.(6)  "Textbook" means a book published primarily for instruction in connection with a particular course or courses offered to postsecondary students by an institution of higher education.  The term includes any edition of a textbook or set of textbooks and any item considered supplemental specifically to the textbook, regardless of whether the textbook and supplemental item are sold together or separately.(7)  "Textbook bundle" means a textbook that is combined with other instructional material, such as another textbook or additional printed material, a computer disk, website access, or electronically distributed material, and that is packaged or otherwise offered for sale with that instructional material at a single price.  The term does not include a textbook that is combined with other instructional material if that material in its entirety is:(A)  required to be offered for sale with or as part of the textbook, according to a third-party contractual agreement; or(B)  interrelated with the content of the textbook to such a degree that any separation of the material from the textbook would render the textbook unusable for its intended purpose.
Sec. 51.452.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED TEXTBOOKS.  (a)  Each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  for each semester or academic term, compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule a list of the required and recommended textbooks that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each textbook:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any; and(F)  whether the textbook is an open educational resource;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (b), at the time required by Subsection (c)(2):(A)  publish the textbook list with the course schedule on the institution's Internet website and with any course schedule the institution provides in hard copy format to the students of the institution; and(B)  make that information available to college bookstores and other bookstores that generally serve the students of the institution; and(4)  except as provided by Subsection (b), as soon as practicable after the information becomes available disseminate as required by Subdivision (3) specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and textbook list.(b)  A private or independent institution of higher education is not required to publish a textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(3)(A) or any revisions to that textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(4) if a college bookstore publishes that list and any revisions to that list on the bookstore's Internet website on behalf of the institution at the appropriate times required by this section.(c)  To allow for timely placement of textbook orders by students, each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and textbook list required by Subsection (a); and(2)  disseminate the institution's course schedule and textbook list as required by Subsection (a)(3) as soon as practicable after the institution has compiled the schedule and list but not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for the semester or other academic term for which the schedule and list are compiled.(d)  If a private or independent institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a textbook list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.
Sec. 51.4521.  PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED COURSE MATERIALS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Course material" means a textbook, supplemental material, or open educational resource.(2)  "Institution of higher education," notwithstanding Section 51.451, has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for each semester or academic term, each institution of higher education shall:(1)  compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule, or provide in a prominent location in the schedule a link to an Internet website, such as the Internet website of a college bookstore, that contains, a list of the required and recommended course materials that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each course material, as applicable:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher or provider;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any;(F)  whether the course material is an open educational resource; and(G)  any associated fee or charge, such as a technology cost, library use cost, or printing or publication fee;(3)  in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to:(A)  the full amount of any fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution, including a statement regarding whether the fee or charge is included in the cost of tuition;(B)  if a course material is in a primarily electronic format, the terms under which the publisher or provider collects and uses student data obtained through a student's use of the course material; and(C)  any provision that allows the student to opt out of a fee or charge described by Paragraph (A); and(4)  make information regarding the cost of course materials on the course materials list under Subdivision (2) available to college bookstores and other providers of course materials that serve the students of the institution.(c)  As soon as practicable after the information becomes available, each institution of higher education shall make available specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and course materials list.(d)  An institution of higher education shall itemize a fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution separately from any other fees or charges assessed for a course or course section in the institution's billing to the student.  This subsection may not be construed to prohibit an institution of higher education from including the cost of course materials as part of the institution's tuition.(e)  Any agreement between an institution of higher education and an entity under which the institution agrees to assess or allows the entity to assess a fee or charge for course materials to students enrolled at the institution is public information under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  To allow for timely placement of course material orders by students, each institution of higher education shall establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and course materials list required by Subsection (b).(g)  If an institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a course materials list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.(h)  If an institution of higher education designates in the institution's course schedule certain courses or sections of courses as having low course material costs or a similar designation, the institution shall, in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to the criteria for that designation.(i)  This section may not be construed to affect any authority granted to a faculty member by an institution of higher education to select course materials for courses taught by the faculty member.
Sec. 51.454.  TEXTBOOK PUBLISHERS: AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO FACULTY CONCERNING TEXTBOOK PRICES, REVISIONS, AND COPYRIGHTS.  (a)  When a textbook publisher provides information regarding a textbook or supplemental material other than an open educational resource to a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education, the publisher shall also provide to the faculty member or other person written information that includes:(1)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material available to a college bookstore or other bookstore that generally serves the students of the institution and, if applicable, to the public;(2)  the copyright dates of the current and three preceding editions of the textbook;(3)  a description of any substantial content revisions made between the current edition of the textbook or supplemental material and the most recent preceding edition of the textbook or material, including the addition of new chapters, new material covering additional time periods, new themes, or new subject matter;(4)  information as to whether the textbook or supplemental material is available in other formats, such as a paperback or unbound version; and(5)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material in any alternative format available to a bookstore described by Subdivision (1) and, if applicable, to the public.(b)  A textbook publisher shall comply with this section with respect to a custom textbook only to the extent reasonably practicable.
SUBCHAPTER O. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICIESSec. 51.680.  REVIEW BY COMMISSIONER OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The commissioner of higher education, by December 31, 1987, shall review the intellectual property policies of institutions of higher education that were filed with the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, pursuant to Senate Concurrent Resolution 92 of the 69th Texas Legislature.  In this review, the commissioner shall determine, as a ministerial duty, without regard to the substance of the content thereof, whether the intellectual property policies address as a minimum standard the following matters:(1)  disclosure of scientific and technological developments, including inventions, discoveries, trade secrets, and computer software;(2)  institutional review of scientific and technological disclosures, including consideration of ownership and appropriate legal protection;(3)  guidelines for licensing scientific and technological developments;(4)  clear identification of ownership and licensing responsibilities for each class of intellectual property;(5)  royalty participation by inventors and the institution;  and(6)  equity and management participation on the part of the inventor or inventors in business entities that utilize technology created at the institution of higher education.(b)  No later than January 31, 1988, the commissioner of higher education shall inform institutions of higher education whether their intellectual property policies meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a). Thereafter, an institution of higher education may file or post on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public policies amended to overcome any failure to meet the standards.  The commissioner shall within a reasonable time after receiving an amended policy inform the submitting institution whether it meets the standards.(c)  It is a policy of the state that each institution of higher education shall at all times have a current copy of its intellectual property policies that meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) posted on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public.  The commissioner of higher education shall establish procedures for the monitoring of this policy of the state.(d)  Institutions of higher education not having an intellectual property policy meeting the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) of this section by August 31, 1988, shall not receive funds under any state-run competitive research or advanced technology funding programs.
SUBCHAPTER P. FUND FOR THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCESSec. 51.701.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.  The legislature finds that:(1)  strength in the manufacturing sector is critical to the United States' and Texas' international competitive position, as well as to the national security.  Manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier of any industrial sector, contributing to economic growth and personal wealth.  High technology manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier among manufacturing sectors;(2)  the health of the manufacturing sector is critical for economic growth in Texas.  Texas, as a primary producer of raw materials, finds itself positioned to benefit tremendously from improvement and development of its manufacturing capabilities, even while the Texas economy suffers the consequences of having depended too heavily on production of raw materials alone;  and(3)  manufacturing industry sales growth and productivity increases have been shown to move in direct relation to the performance of research and development by the industry.
SUBCHAPTER R. EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY CENTERSec. 51.751.  CREATION AND OPERATION.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Center is created as a consortium of universities.  Each public senior college or university in the state shall participate in the Educational Economic Policy Center at the request of the governor.  The center shall represent business, finance, public policy, education, and other appropriate disciplines.(b)  The center shall examine the efficiency of the public school system and the effectiveness of instructional methods and curricular programs and promote the use of successful methods and programs.  The center shall monitor and evaluate the implementation of the accountability system under Chapters 39 and 39A.(c)  The center may be funded by donations, grants, and legislative appropriations.  The office of the governor may receive grants and donations for the purposes of this subchapter.(d)  The center may assist the legislature with education policy studies related to the purposes of the center on approval of the governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker.  The center may participate in collaborative studies with foundations or organizations within or outside the state.
Sec. 51.752.  EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY COMMITTEE.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Committee is created as the primary policy-making body of the Educational Economic Policy Center.  The committee shall study the elements of a quality educational system to:(1)  improve the management and productivity of the public education system to meet the demands of the twenty-first century;(2)  provide greater accountability to the taxpayers of the state;  and(3)  improve the state's ability to compete in education and to compete economically with other states and nations.(b)  The committee is composed of nine members.  The governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives shall each appoint two members, only one of whom may be a board member or employee of a public school district, college, or university.  Those appointees shall include persons in the private sector who have an interest in improving public education.  In addition, the governor shall appoint three members who serve on the boards of regents representing the universities or systems participating in the center.(c)  Members of the committee serve two-year staggered terms.(d)  The governor shall appoint one member of the committee as the chairman.(e)  Members shall not receive salaries but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending meetings of the committee.(f)  State agencies shall cooperate with and assist the center at the committee's request.(g)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1203 , Sec. 21(1), eff. September 1, 2015.(h)  If the legislature fails to appropriate funds for the operation of the Educational Economic Policy Center, the Legislative Budget Board shall perform the duties of the committee under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.762.  COMMON ADMISSION APPLICATION FORMS.  (a)  The board, with the assistance of high school counselors and an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, public technical institutes, and private or independent institutions of higher education, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit freshman-level students:(1)  shall adopt by rule:(A)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to a general academic teaching institution;(B)  an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(C)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education; and(2)  may adopt by rule a printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution.(b)  The board, with the assistance of an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, and public technical institutes, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit undergraduate transfer students, may adopt by rule:(1)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to a general academic teaching institution;(2)  an electronic or printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to an institution of higher education that admits undergraduate transfer students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(3)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a transfer student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education.(b-1)  An electronic common admission application form adopted under this section must include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  In addition to information required to determine the residency status of the applicant and information relating to the use of the form at each institution, the board shall include on each application form adopted under this section information that the board considers appropriate.(d)  The board shall attempt to ensure as much uniformity in the forms adopted under this section as possible, regardless of the category of institution for which the forms are adopted.(e)  The board shall publicize in both electronic and printed formats the availability of a form adopted under this section.(f)  The board shall ensure that copies of the freshman common admission application forms and information for the use of the forms are available in electronic format for distribution to the appropriate personnel at each public high school in this state.(g)  The board shall make a form adopted under this section available to the public electronically by the Internet or other commonly used telecommunications media and may contract with an institution of higher education or other provider to satisfy this requirement.(h)  An applicant may file, and each institution of higher education shall accept, an application for admission as an entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student that uses the appropriate form adopted under this section.  The form used to apply to a general academic teaching institution may be filed in either electronic or printed format.  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application using a form adopted under this section.(i)  In addition to other information considered appropriate by the board, the board by rule shall require each institution to collect information regarding gender, ethnicity, and date of birth as part of the application process and report this information to the board.(j)  In adopting a form under this section, the board shall ensure that an applicant may indicate on the form the applicant's consent to an institution of higher education to which the applicant submits an application for admission to a particular degree program using the form to, if the institution denies the applicant admission to that degree program, provide the applicant's application to other institutions of higher education that offer the degree program.
Sec. 51.763.  ELECTRONIC ADMISSION APPLICATION FORM FOR UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  The governing board of a university system shall adopt a common admission application form consistent with this subchapter to be used by any person seeking freshman or undergraduate transfer admission to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system.(b)  The form must:(1)  allow each applicant to:(A)  apply electronically to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system; and(B)  indicate preferences for admission between those institutions; and(2)  include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  A general academic teaching institution is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application under this section.
SUBCHAPTER T. CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTSSec. 51.776.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Architect" means an individual registered as an architect under Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(2)  "Board" means the governing body of an institution.(3)  "Contractor" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for constructing, rehabilitating, altering, or repairing all or part of the facility at the contracted price.(4)  "Engineer" means an individual licensed as an engineer under Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.(5)  "Facility" means real property, including buildings and associated structures and improved or unimproved land.(6)  "Fee" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means the payment a construction manager receives for its overhead and profit in performing its services.(7)  "General conditions" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means on-site management, administrative personnel, insurance, bonds, equipment, utilities, and incidental work, including minor field labor and materials.(8)  "Institution" means an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, other than a public junior college.
Sec. 51.7761.  AGREEMENT WITH COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ORGANIZATION.  (a) In this section, "public work contract" means a contract for constructing, altering, or repairing a public building or carrying out or completing any public work.(b)  An institution awarding a public work contract funded with state money, including the issuance of debt guaranteed by this state, may not:(1)  prohibit, require, discourage, or encourage a person bidding on the public work contract, including a contractor or subcontractor, from entering into or adhering to an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  discriminate against a person  described by Subdivision (1) based on the person's involvement in the agreement, including the person's:(A)  status or lack of status as a party to the agreement; or(B)  willingness or refusal to enter into the agreement.(c)  This section may not be construed to:(1)  prohibit activity protected by the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.), including entering into an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  permit conduct prohibited under the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.).
Sec. 51.780.  DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Design-build contract" means a single contract with a design-build firm for the design and construction of a facility.(2)  "Design-build firm" means a partnership, corporation, or other legal entity or team that includes an engineer or architect and builder qualified to engage in building construction in Texas.(3)  "Design criteria package" means a set of documents that provides sufficient information to permit a design-build firm to prepare a response to an institution's request for qualifications and any additional information requested, including criteria for selection. The design criteria package must specify criteria the institution considers necessary to describe the project and may include, as appropriate, the legal description of the site, survey information concerning the site, interior space requirements, special material requirements, material quality standards, conceptual criteria for the project, special equipment requirements, cost or budget estimates, time schedules, quality assurance and quality control requirements, site development requirements, applicable codes and ordinances, provisions for utilities, parking requirements, or any other requirement, as applicable.(b)  An institution may use the design-build method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a design-build firm, the contracting institution and the design-build firm shall follow the procedures provided by Subsections (c)-(k).(c)  The board may designate an engineer or architect independent of the design-build firm to act as its representative for the duration of the work on the facility.  If the board's engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, any engineer or architect designated shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(d)  The institution shall prepare a request for qualifications that includes general information on the project site, project scope, budget, special systems, selection criteria, and other information that may assist potential design-build firms in submitting proposals for the project.  The institution shall also prepare the design criteria package that includes more detailed information on the project.  If the preparation of the design criteria package requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, those services shall be provided in accordance with the applicable law.(e)  The board or its representative shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board or its representative shall evaluate statements of qualifications and select a design-build firm in two phases:(1)  In phase one, the board or its representative shall prepare a request for qualifications and evaluate each offeror's experience, technical competence, and capability to perform, the past performance of the offeror's team and members of the team, and other appropriate factors submitted by the team or firm in response to the request for qualifications, except that cost-related or price-related evaluation factors are not permitted.  Each offeror must certify to the board that each engineer or architect that is a member of its team was selected based on demonstrated competence and qualifications in the manner provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The board or its representative shall qualify a maximum of five offerors to submit additional information and, if the board or its representative chooses, to interview for final selection.(2)  In phase two, the board or its representative shall evaluate the information submitted by the offerors on the basis of the selection criteria stated in the request for qualifications and the results of any interview.  The board or its representative may request additional information regarding demonstrated competence and qualifications, considerations of the safety and long-term durability of the project, the feasibility of implementing the project as proposed, the ability of the offeror to meet schedules, costing methodology, or other factors as appropriate.  The board or its representative may not require offerors to submit detailed engineering or architectural designs as part of the proposal.  The board or its representative shall rank each proposal submitted on the basis of the criteria specified in the request for qualifications.  The board or its representative shall select the design-build firm that submits the proposal offering the best value for the institution on the basis of the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluations.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the institution shall, formally and in writing, end all negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(g)  Following selection of a design-build firm under Subsection (f), that firm's engineers or architects shall complete the design, submitting all design elements for review and determination of scope compliance by the institution's engineer or architect before or concurrently with construction.(h)  An engineer shall have responsibility for compliance with the engineering design requirements and all other applicable requirements of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.  An architect shall have responsibility for compliance with the requirements of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(i)  The institution shall provide or contract for, independently of the design-build firm, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The institution shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(j)  The design-build firm shall supply a signed and sealed set of construction documents for the project to the institution at the conclusion of construction.(k)  A payment or performance bond is not required for, and may not provide coverage for, the portion of a design-build contract under this section that includes design services only.  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time a design-build contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution shall each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as specified in the design criteria package.  The design-build firm shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the design-build firm executes the contract unless the design-build firm furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the design-build firm will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.781.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AGENT.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-agent method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-agent, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-agent is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that provides consultation to the institution regarding construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of the facility.  An institution using the construction manager-agent method may, under the contract between the institution and the construction manager-agent, require the construction manager-agent to provide administrative personnel, equipment necessary to perform duties under this section, and on-site management and other services specified in the contract.  A construction manager-agent represents the institution in a fiduciary capacity.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-agent, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer or architect may not serve, alone or in combination with another person, as the construction manager-agent unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-agent under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  A board shall select a construction manager-agent on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in the same manner as provided for the selection of engineers or architects under Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  A board using the construction manager-agent method shall procure, in accordance with applicable law and in any manner authorized by this chapter, a general contractor, trade contractors, or subcontractors who will serve as the prime contractor for their specific portion of the work.(f)  The board or the construction manager-agent shall procure in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, all of the testing of construction materials engineering, the inspection services, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.
Sec. 51.782.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AT-RISK.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-at-risk method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-at-risk, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-at-risk is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility at the contracted price as a general contractor and provides consultation to the institution regarding construction during and after the design of the facility.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-at-risk, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer, architect, or construction manager-agent for a project may not serve, alone or in combination with another, as the construction manager-at-risk unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-at-risk under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the construction manager-at-risk, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  The board shall select the construction manager-at-risk in either a one-step or two-step process.  The board shall prepare a request for proposals, in the case of a one-step process, or a request for qualifications, in the case of a two-step process, that includes general information on the project site, project scope, schedule, selection criteria, estimated budget, and the time and place for receipt of proposals or qualifications, as applicable, a statement as to whether the selection process is a one-step or two-step process, and other information that may assist the board in its selection of a construction manager-at-risk.  The board shall state the selection criteria in the request for proposals or qualifications, as applicable.  The selection criteria may include the offeror's experience, past performance, safety record, proposed personnel and methodology, and other appropriate factors that demonstrate the capability of the construction manager-at-risk.  If a one-step process is used, the board may request, as part of the offeror's proposal, proposed fees and prices for fulfilling the general conditions.  If a two-step process is used, the board may not request fees or prices in step one.  In step two, the board may request that five or fewer offerors, selected solely on the basis of qualifications, provide additional information, including the construction manager-at-risk's proposed fee and its price for fulfilling the general conditions.(f)  The board shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(g)  At each step, the board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors.  At the appropriate step, the board shall also read aloud the fees and prices, if any, stated in each proposal as the proposal is opened.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals, the board or its representative shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the criteria set forth in the request for proposals.(h)  The board or its representative shall select the offeror that submits the proposal that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the board or its representative shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(i)  A construction manager-at-risk shall publicly advertise, in the manner prescribed by the institution, and receive bids or proposals from trade contractors or subcontractors for the performance of all major elements of the work other than general conditions work.  A construction manager-at-risk may seek to perform major elements of the work itself if the construction manager-at-risk submits its bid or proposal for that work in the same manner as all other trade contractors or subcontractors and if the board determines that the construction manager-at-risk's bid or proposal provides the best value for the institution.  If no satisfactory bid or proposal for a major element of the work is received in the time allowed, the board may negotiate directly with the construction manager-at-risk for performance of that work.  The board may negotiate directly with the manager-at-risk for the performance of minor elements of the work that are not included in major work packages.(j)  The construction manager-at-risk and the board or its representative shall review all trade contractor or subcontractor bids or proposals in a manner that does not disclose the contents of the bid or proposal during the selection process to a person not employed by the construction manager-at-risk, engineer, architect, or institution.  All bids or proposals shall be made public after the award of the contract or within seven days after the date of final selection of bids and proposals, whichever is later.(k)  If the construction manager-at-risk reviews, evaluates, and recommends to the board a bid or proposal from a trade contractor or subcontractor but the board requires another bid or proposal to be accepted, the institution shall compensate the construction manager-at-risk by a change in price, time, or guaranteed maximum cost for any additional cost and risk that the construction manager-at-risk may incur because of the board's requirement that another bid or proposal be accepted.(l)  If a selected trade contractor or subcontractor defaults in the performance of its work or fails to execute a subcontract after being selected in accordance with this section, the construction manager-at-risk may, without advertising, itself fulfill the contract requirements or select a replacement trade contractor or subcontractor to fulfill the contract requirements.(m)  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time the contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution must each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as set forth in the request for qualifications.  The construction manager shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the construction manager executes the contract unless the construction manager furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the construction manager will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.783.  SELECTING CONTRACTOR FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES THROUGH COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS.  (a)  In selecting a contractor for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair services for a facility through competitive sealed proposals, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  The board shall select or designate an engineer or architect to prepare construction documents for the project.  The selected or designated engineer or architect has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.(c)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the contractor, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, and shall identify them in the request for proposals.(d)  The board shall prepare a request for competitive sealed proposals that includes construction documents, selection criteria, estimated budget, project scope, schedule, and other information that contractors may require to respond to the request.  The board shall state in the request for proposals the selection criteria that will be used in selecting the successful offeror.(e)  The board shall publish notice of the request for proposals in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors and, if any are required to be stated, all prices stated in each proposal.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals the board shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the published selection criteria.(g)  The board shall select the offeror that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  The board and its engineer or architect may discuss with the selected offeror options for a scope or time modification and any price change associated with the modification. If the board is unable to reach a contract with the selected offeror, the board shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or all proposals are rejected.(h)  In determining best value for the institution, the board is not restricted to considering price alone but may consider any other factor stated in the selection criteria.
Sec. 51.784.  JOB ORDER CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.  (a)  An institution may award job order contracts for the minor construction, repair, rehabilitation, or alteration of a facility if the work is of a recurring nature but the delivery times are indefinite and indefinite quantities and orders are awarded substantially on the basis of predescribed and prepriced tasks.(b)  The institution may establish contractual unit prices for a job order contract by:(1)  specifying one or more published construction unit price books and the applicable divisions or line items;  or(2)  providing a list of work items and requiring the offerors to bid or propose one or more coefficients or multipliers to be applied to the price book or work items as the price proposal.(c)  The board shall advertise for, receive, and publicly open sealed proposals for job order contracts.(d)  The board may require offerors to submit additional information besides rates, including experience, past performance, and proposed personnel and methodology.(e)  The board may award job order contracts to one or more job order contractors in connection with each solicitation of bids or proposals.(f)  An order for a job or project under the job order contract must be signed by the board's representative and the contractor.  The order may be a fixed price, lump-sum contract based substantially on contractual unit pricing applied to estimated quantities or may be a unit price order based on the quantities and line items delivered.(g)  The contractor shall provide payment and performance bonds, if required by law, based on the amount or estimated amount of any order.(h)  The base term of a job order contract is for the period and with any renewal options that the institution sets forth in the request for proposals.  If the institution fails to advertise that term, the base term may not exceed two years and is not renewable without further advertisement and solicitation of proposals.(i)  If a job order contract or an order issued under the contract requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, the board shall select or designate an architect or engineer to prepare the construction documents for the facility.  If the architect or engineer is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the architect or engineer on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.
Sec. 51.803.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION:  ALL INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  Subject to Subsection (a-1), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated with a grade point average in the top 10 percent of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the applicant is applying for admission and:(1)  the applicant:(A)  graduated from a public or private high school in this state accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; or(B)  completed a nontraditional secondary education as defined by Section 51.9241;(2)  the applicant:(A)  successfully completed:(i)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(ii)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(B)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent; and(3)  if the applicant graduated from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense, the applicant is a Texas resident under Section 54.052 or is entitled to pay tuition fees at the rate provided for Texas residents under Section 54.241(d) for the term or semester to which admitted.(a-1)  Beginning with admissions for the 2011-2012 academic year, The University of Texas at Austin is not required to offer admission to applicants who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in excess of the number required to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students in an academic year.  If the number of applicants who qualify for automatic admission to The University of Texas at Austin under Subsection (a) for an academic year exceeds 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that academic year, the university may elect to offer admission to those applicants as provided by this subsection and not as otherwise required by Subsection (a).  If the university elects to offer admission under this subsection, the university shall offer admission to those applicants by percentile rank according to high school graduating class standing based on grade point average, beginning with the top percentile rank, until the applicants qualified under Subsection (a) have been offered admission in the number estimated in good faith by the university as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students, except that the university must offer admission to all applicants with the same percentile rank.  After the applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) have been offered admission under this subsection in the number estimated in good faith as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the designated enrollment capacity described by this subsection, the university shall consider any remaining applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in the same manner as other applicants for admission as first-time undergraduate students in accordance with Section 51.805.(a-2)  If the number of applicants who apply to a general academic teaching institution during the current academic year for admission in the next academic year and who qualify for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Subsection (a) exceeds 75 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that next academic year and the institution plans to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year, the institution shall, in the manner prescribed by the Texas Education Agency and not later than September 15, provide to each school district, for dissemination of the information to high school junior-level students and their parents, notice of which percentile ranks of high school senior-level students who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) are anticipated by the institution to be offered admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year.(a-3)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 776 , Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2015.(a-4)  If The University of Texas at Austin elects to offer admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year, the university must continue its practice of not considering an applicant's legacy status as a factor in the university's decisions relating to admissions for that academic year.(a-5)  A general academic teaching institution that offers admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) shall require that a student admitted under that subsection complete a designated portion of not less than six semester credit hours of the student's coursework during evening hours or other low-demand hours as necessary to ensure the efficient use of the institution's available classrooms.(a-6)  Not later than December 31 of each academic year in which The University of Texas at Austin offers admission under Subsection (a-1), the university shall deliver a written report to the governor, the lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives regarding the university's progress in each of the following matters:(1)  increasing geographic diversity of the entering freshman class;(2)  counseling and outreach efforts aimed at students qualified for automatic admission under this section;(3)  recruiting Texas residents who graduate from other institutions of higher education to the university's graduate and professional degree programs;(4)  recruiting students who are members of underrepresented demographic segments of the state's population; and(5)  assessing and improving the university's regional recruitment centers.(b)  An applicant who does not satisfy the curriculum requirements prescribed by Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii) is considered to have satisfied those requirements if the student completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student but was unable to complete the remainder of the curriculum solely because courses necessary to complete the remainder were unavailable to the student at the appropriate times in the student's high school career as a result of course scheduling, lack of enrollment capacity, or another cause not within the student's control.(c)  To qualify for admission under this section, an applicant must:(1)  submit an application before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution; and(2)  provide a high school transcript or diploma that satisfies the requirements of Subsection (d).(d)  For purposes of Subsection (c)(2), a student's official transcript or diploma must, not later than the end of the student's junior year, indicate:(1)  whether the student has satisfied or is on schedule to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii), as applicable; or(2)  if Subsection (b) applies to the student, whether the student has completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student.(d-1)  In addition to admissions required under Subsection (a), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated as the valedictorian of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the student is applying for admission and satisfies the requirements of Subsections (a)(1) through (3).  Subsection (b) applies to an applicant for admission under this subsection.  An applicant admitted under this subsection is considered automatically admitted for purposes of Subsection (a), (a-1), or (a-2), as applicable.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant:(1)  is the child of a public servant listed in Section 615.003, Government Code, who was killed or sustained a fatal injury in the line of duty; and(2)  meets the minimum requirements, if any, established for purposes of this subsection by the governing board of the institution for high school or prior college-level grade point average and performance on standardized tests.(f)  After admitting an applicant under this section, the institution shall review the applicant's record and any other factor the institution considers appropriate to determine whether the applicant may require additional preparation for college-level work or would benefit from inclusion in a retention program.  The institution may require a student so identified to enroll during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section to participate in appropriate enrichment courses and orientation programs.  This section does not prohibit a student who is not determined to need additional preparation for college-level work from enrolling, if the student chooses, during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board by rule shall develop and implement a program to increase and enhance the efforts of general academic teaching institutions in conducting outreach to academically high-performing high school seniors in this state who are likely to be eligible for automatic admission under Subsection (a) to provide to those students information and counseling regarding the operation of this section and other opportunities, including financial assistance, available to those students for success at public institutions of higher education in this state.  Under the program, the coordinating board, after gathering information and recommendations from available sources and examining current outreach practices by institutions in this state and in other states, shall prescribe best practices guidelines and standards to be used by general academic teaching institutions in conducting the student outreach described by this subsection.(h)  An institution that admits under this section an applicant qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) or (d-1) may admit the applicant for either the fall semester of the academic year for which the applicant applies or for the summer session preceding that fall semester, as determined by the institution.(i)  If a general academic teaching institution denies admission to an applicant for an academic year, in any letter or other communication the institution provides to the applicant notifying the applicant of that denial, the institution may not reference the provisions of this section, including using a description of a provision of this section such as the top 10 percent automatic admissions law, as a reason the institution is unable to offer admission to the applicant unless the number of applicants for admission to the institution for that academic year who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) is sufficient to fill 100 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students.(j)  A general academic teaching institution that elects to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year may not offer admission to first-time undergraduate students who are not residents of this state for that academic year in excess of the number required to fill 10 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time undergraduate students for that academic year.(k)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 365 (S.B. 2538), Sec. 1, eff. June 2, 2023.(l)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall publish an annual report on the impact of Subsection (a-1) on the state's goal of closing college access and achievement gaps under "Closing the Gaps," the state's master plan for higher education, with respect to students of an institution that offers admission under that subsection, disaggregated by race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region and by whether the high school from which the student graduated was a small school, as defined by the commissioner of education, or a public high school that is ranked among the lowest 20 percent of public high schools according to the percentage of each high school's graduates who enroll in a four-year institution, including a general academic teaching institution, in one of the two academic years following the year of the applicant's high school graduation.  On request, a general academic teaching institution that offers admission under Subsection (a-1) shall provide the board with any information the board considers necessary for the completion of the report required by this subsection.(m)  In determining the eligibility for admission under this section of an applicant with a nontraditional secondary education, as defined by Section 51.9241, that does not include a high school graduating class ranking, a general academic teaching institution shall calculate the applicant's class rank in the manner provided by Section 51.9241(d).
Sec. 51.8035.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION OF APPLICANTS COMPLETING CORE CURRICULUM AT ANOTHER INSTITUTION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Core curriculum" means the core curriculum adopted by an institution of higher education under Section 61.822.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as a transfer undergraduate student who:(1)  graduated from high school not earlier than the fourth school year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission to the institution as a transfer student and:(A)  qualified for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Section 51.803 at the time of graduation; or(B)  was previously offered admission under this subchapter to the institution to which the applicant seeks admission as a transfer student;(2)  first enrolled in a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education not earlier than the third academic year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission;(3)  completed the core curriculum at a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale or the equivalent; and(4)  submits a completed application for admission as a transfer student before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution.(c)  For purposes of this section, transfer semester credit hours from a different institution of higher education and semester credit hours earned by examination shall be included in determining whether the person completed the core curriculum at an institution of higher education.(d)  It is the responsibility of the applicant for admission under this section to:(1)  expressly and clearly claim in the application entitlement to admission under this section; and(2)  timely provide to the general academic teaching institution the documentation required by the institution to determine the student's entitlement to admission under this section.
Sec. 51.8045.  GRADUATES OF CERTAIN SPECIAL HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS.  (a)  For purposes of Sections 51.803 and 51.804 only, the governing body of a school district may treat a high school magnet program, academy, or other special program conducted by the school district at a high school attended by high school students who are not students of the special program as an independent high school with its own graduating class separate from the graduating class of other students attending the high school if:(1)  the special program was in operation in the 2000-2001 school year;(2)  the students of the special program are recruited, selected, or admitted from among the students residing in the attendance zones of not fewer than 10 regular high schools in the district, including the high school at which the special program is conducted;(3)  the students of the special program are selected or admitted independently of and identified as a student body separate from the other students of the high school;(4)  the students of the special program constitute not less than 35 percent of the total number of students in the graduating class at the high school at which the special program is conducted;(5)  the students of the special program have a curriculum different from that of the other students of the high school, even if students of the special program and other students of the high school attend some of the same classes;  and(6)  a student graduating from the special program receives a high school diploma that includes a reference to the special program in describing the high school from which the student graduated.(b)  This section does not apply to the manner in which the members of a graduating class of the high school as a whole, including graduates of the special program, are ranked by grade point average for purposes other than admissions under Sections 51.803 and 51.804.
Sec. 51.805.  OTHER ADMISSIONS.  (a)  A graduating student who does not qualify for admission under Section 51.803 or 51.804 may apply to any general academic teaching institution if the student:(1)  successfully completed:(A)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the foundation high school program; or(B)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the foundation high school program; or(2)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent.(b)  The general academic teaching institution, after admitting students under Sections 51.803 and 51.804, shall admit other applicants for admission as undergraduate students.  It is the intent of the legislature that all institutions of higher education pursue academic excellence by considering students' academic achievements in decisions related to admissions.  Because of changing demographic trends, diversity, and population increases in the state, each general academic teaching institution shall also consider all of, any of, or a combination of the following socioeconomic indicators or factors in making first-time freshman admissions decisions:(1)  the applicant's academic record;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant, including the percentage by which the applicant's family is above or below any recognized measure of poverty, the applicant's household income, and the applicant's parents' level of education;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an institution of higher education;(4)  whether the applicant has bilingual proficiency;(5)  the financial status of the applicant's school district;(6)  the performance level of the applicant's school as determined by the school accountability criteria used by the Texas Education Agency;(7)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending school, including whether the applicant has been employed, whether the applicant has helped to raise children, or other similar factors;(8)  the applicant's region of residence;(9)  whether the applicant is a resident of a rural or urban area or a resident of a central city or suburban area in the state;(10)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests;(11)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests in comparison with that of other students from similar socioeconomic backgrounds;(12)  whether the applicant attended any school while the school was under a court-ordered desegregation plan;(13)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(14)  the applicant's extracurricular activities;(15)  the applicant's commitment to a particular field of study;(16)  the applicant's personal interview;(17)  the applicant's admission to a comparable accredited out-of-state institution;  and(18)  any other consideration the institution considers necessary to accomplish the institution's stated mission.(c)  A general academic teaching institution may review other factors in making an admissions decision.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admission are first considered under this section, each general academic teaching institution shall publish in the institution's catalog a description of the factors considered by the institution in making admission decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  This section does not apply to an institution that has an open enrollment policy, except that a student may apply to a general academic teaching institution that has an open enrollment policy only if the student satisfies the requirements described by Subsection (a).(f)  This section does not apply to Lamar State College--Orange or Lamar State College--Port Arthur as long as those institutions operate as two-year lower-division institutions of higher education.
Sec. 51.808.  APPLICATION OF ADMISSION CRITERIA TO OTHER PROGRAMS.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit that offers admissions to undergraduate transfer students or admissions to a graduate, postgraduate, or professional program shall adopt a written admission policy applicable to those programs.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution shall adopt a written admission policy to promote the admission of undergraduate transfer students to the institution.  The policy must provide for outreach and recruiting efforts directed at junior colleges and other lower-division institutions of higher education and may include incentives to encourage transfer applications and to retain and promote transfer students.(c)  A policy adopted under this section shall be published in the institution's or unit's catalog and made available to the public.
Sec. 51.810.  HIGHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE PLANS.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The institution of higher education in closest geographic proximity to a public high school in this state identified by the coordinating board for purposes of this section as substantially below the state average in the number of graduates who enroll in higher education institutions shall enter into an agreement with that high school to develop a plan to increase the number of students from that high school enrolling in higher education institutions.  Under the plan, the institution shall:(1)  collaborate with the high school to:(A)  provide to prospective students information related to enrollment in an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, including admissions, testing, and financial aid information;(B)  assist those prospective students in completing applications and testing related to enrollment in those institutions, including admissions and financial aid applications, and fulfilling testing requirements; and(C)  target efforts to increase the number of Hispanic students and African American male students enrolled in higher education institutions; and(2)  actively engage with local school districts to provide access to rigorous, high-quality dual credit opportunities for qualified high school students as needed.(c)  An institution of higher education must include a plan developed by the institution under this section and the results of that plan in its annual report to the coordinating board under Section 51.4032.(d)  The coordinating board shall include in its annual "Closing the Gaps" higher education plan progress report a summary of the results of the plans developed and administered under this section.(e)  The coordinating board may adopt rules to implement this section.
SUBCHAPTER V. JOINT ADMISSION MEDICAL PROGRAMSec. 51.821.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Council" means the Joint Admission Medical Program Council established under this subchapter.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" means a four-year general academic teaching institution as defined by Section 61.003. (3)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" means an institution as defined by Section 61.003(15) that grants baccalaureate degrees and offers a program in premedical education.(4)  "Participating medical school" means each of the following entities:(A)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston;(B)  the medical school at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;(C)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio;(D)  the medical school at The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston;(E)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at Lubbock;(F)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El Paso;(G)  the Baylor College of Medicine;(H)  the college of osteopathic medicine at the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth;(I)  the medical school at The Texas A&M University System Health Science Center;(J)  the medical school at The University of Texas at Austin;(K)  the medical school at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley;(L)  the medical school at the University of Houston;(M)  the college of osteopathic medicine at Sam Houston State University; and(N)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler.(5)  "Participating student" means an eligible undergraduate student who is admitted to the program and who maintains eligibility for continued participation in the program.  The term does not include a program alternate who participates in mentoring activities and receives other related counseling services under the program.(6)  "Program" means the Joint Admission Medical Program established under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.824.  COUNCIL DUTIES.  (a)  The council shall:(1)  recruit eligible undergraduate students for admission to the program;(2)  establish an application process for admitting eligible undergraduate students to the program;(3)  evaluate applications for admission to the program according to the procedures for selecting participating students under Subsection (b) and for selecting program alternates under Section 51.8245;(4)  monitor the implementation of the program;(5)  assist in developing services to support and encourage the pursuit of a medical education by participating students and program alternates;(6)  establish a process for participating students to:(A)  be matched to an internship program as described by Subsection (c);(B)  be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Subsection (d);(C)  apply for admission to participating medical schools;(D)  be matched to a participating medical school as described by Subsection (e); and(E)  enroll in that school;(7)  award to participating students undergraduate scholarships and summer stipends, including a summer stipend for a student who is required to participate in an internship program in the summer immediately following the student's senior year;(8)  award graduate scholarships to participating students;(9)  enter into an agreement with each student admitted to the program, each program alternate, each participating medical school, and each general academic teaching institution or private or independent institution of higher education as required by this subchapter; and(10)  take any other action necessary to implement the program.(b)  From each general academic teaching institution, the council annually shall select for admission to the program two eligible undergraduate students who are enrolled as sophomores at that institution.  From each private or independent institution of higher education, the council annually shall select for admission to the program one eligible undergraduate student who is enrolled as a sophomore at that institution.  The council shall allocate the remaining program openings to participating institutions as the council determines to be appropriate.  If there are insufficient program openings to accommodate two students from each general academic teaching institution and one student from each private or independent institution of higher education, as appropriate to achieve the purpose of this subchapter the council shall select for admission to the program eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled in the participating institutions, with not more than 15 percent of the total program openings for any year to be allocated to eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled at private or independent institutions of higher education.(c)  The council shall match each participating student with appropriate internship programs offered by participating medical schools during the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years.  A participating medical school to which a participating student is matched under Subsection (e) may require the student to participate in an internship program offered by the medical school during the summer immediately following the student's senior year.(d)  The council shall match each participating student and each program alternate with any appropriate undergraduate mentoring program required of the student or alternate by the council.(e)  During a participating student's senior year, the council shall match the student with an appropriate participating medical school as necessary to fill the percentage of enrollment capacity set aside by each medical school under the program.  To the extent possible, the council shall accommodate the preferences of participating students regarding medical school placement.  A participating medical school may not make an offer of admission to a participating student before the student is matched by the council to a medical school as described by this subsection.
Sec. 51.8245.  PROGRAM ALTERNATES.  (a)  The council shall establish procedures by which the council selects from the annual pool of applicants for the program an appropriate number of eligible undergraduate students to serve as program alternates until the beginning of their senior year.  The council shall rank program alternates according to their qualifications for the program and, immediately on the termination of the participation of a student previously admitted to the program, shall select the highest ranking program alternate to be a participating student under the program.  The council may not select a program alternate to be a participating student after the first day of the fall semester of the alternate's senior year.(b)  The council shall establish procedures for program alternates to be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Section 51.824(d).  A program alternate selected under this section is limited to participating in mentoring activities and receiving other related counseling services under the program and must sign an agreement to that effect.(c)  The council shall adopt criteria for program alternates to maintain their eligibility as program alternates.
Sec. 51.826.  ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION TO PROGRAM.(a)  To be eligible for admission to the program or for selection as a program alternate, an undergraduate student must:(1)   be enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education at the time of application to the program;(2)  be a Texas resident for purposes of tuition under Subchapter B, Chapter 54;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (c), successfully complete at least 27 semester credit hours during the student's freshman year;(4)  apply for admission to the program not later than a date, as designated by the council, that occurs during the fall semester of the student's sophomore year at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education; and(5)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  minimum high school and undergraduate grade point averages;(B)  financial need and any other indication of economic disadvantage; and(C)  any other matter the council considers appropriate.(b)  For purposes of Subsection (a)(3), a student is not a Texas resident as described by that subdivision solely because the student is eligible to pay tuition at the resident tuition rate.(c)  The council shall adopt rules to admit to the program or to select as a program alternate an otherwise eligible undergraduate student who, for good cause, has not successfully completed the number of semester credit hours required under Subsection (a)(4).  The council may not admit to the program or select as a program alternate an undergraduate student who has successfully completed fewer than 18 semester credit hours.
Sec. 51.8265.  PREADMISSION MENTORING AND ASSISTANCE.  (a)  In order to maximize a student's potential for success in the program, the council shall identify students who may be eligible to participate in the program not later than the beginning of the first fall semester following the student's graduation from high school.(b)  If the student is enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education, an identified student who expresses an interest in participating in the program is entitled to the following assistance during the student's freshman year:(1)  regular meetings with a program faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to monitor the student's academic progress and advise the student in academic course work and career choices; and(2)  tutoring in courses as necessary, to be paid with program funds.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 826, Sec. 3(2), eff. June 19, 2009.
Sec. 51.827.  ELIGIBILITY TO CONTINUE PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM.  (a)  To be eligible to continue participation in the program, an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program must:(1)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  courses taken and minimum grade point average for those courses during enrollment at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  progress in those courses;(C)  achievement of an acceptable score on the Medical College Admission Test or any equivalent examination taken as a precondition for enrollment in or admission to a participating medical school; and(D)  any other matter the council considers appropriate;(2)  participate in:(A)  internship programs described by Section 51.824(c) in:(i)  the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years; and(ii)  if required, the summer immediately following the student's senior year; and(B)  any undergraduate or graduate mentoring program required by the council; and(3)  exhibit intelligence, integrity, and personal and emotional characteristics that are considered necessary for the student to become an effective physician.(b)  If an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) without good cause as determined by the council, the council may terminate that student's participation in the program at the end of the semester during which the student failed to meet the requirements of that subsection.  A student's participation in the program is automatically terminated if the student fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) for two consecutive semesters without good cause.
Sec. 51.829.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PARTICIPATING MEDICAL SCHOOL.  (a)  Each participating medical school must enter into an agreement with the council under which the medical school agrees to:(1)  select a faculty member employed by the medical school to serve on the council;(2)  commit faculty and administrative resources to the program;(3)  set aside for participating students at least 10 percent of the medical school's enrollment capacity for each entering class, except as provided by Subsection (b);(4)  admit participating students who are matched to the medical school under the program;(5)  provide internship programs for participating students who have been matched to or are required to participate in those programs as described by Section 51.824(c) and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary;(6)  provide for participating students and program alternates any mentoring programs required by the council at the undergraduate level and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary; and(7)  provide support services, including postbaccalaureate mentoring programs required by the council, to participating students who enroll in the medical school.(b)  The Baylor College of Medicine must agree under Subsection (a) to set aside under Subsection (a)(3) not less than 10 percent of its enrollment capacity set aside for students who are entitled to pay tuition at the rate provided by Chapter 54 for resident students.
Sec. 51.831.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Each private or independent institution of higher education must enter into an agreement with the council under which the institution agrees to:(1)  provide academic counseling to a participating student or program alternate enrolled at the institution;(2)  as soon as practicable, implement or expand appropriate degree programs as necessary to provide participating students with sufficient preparation for enrollment in participating medical schools;(3)  select a faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to assist in implementing the program at the institution and in implementing or expanding the institution's degree programs as necessary under Subdivision (2); and(4)  provide, in addition to any other scholarship money awarded to the student, a scholarship to a participating student in the amount required for a participating student attending a general academic teaching institution, except that the amount of scholarship awards may not exceed the amount of tuition and fees that the student is charged.
Sec. 51.842.  ADMISSION AND SCHOLARSHIP FACTORS FOR GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  A graduate or professional program of a general academic teaching institution or medical or dental unit may consider the following factors in making an admissions or scholarship decision for admissions into or competitive scholarships for the graduate or professional program:(1)  an applicant's academic record as a high school student and undergraduate student;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school and was an undergraduate student, including any change in that background;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an undergraduate program or from a graduate or professional program;(4)  whether the applicant has multilingual proficiency;(5)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending elementary and secondary school and as an undergraduate student, including whether the applicant was employed, whether the applicant helped to raise children, and other similar factors;(6)  to achieve geographic diversity, the applicant's region of residence at the time of application and, if the applicant graduated from a public high school in this state within the preceding 20 years, the region in which the applicant's school district is located;(7)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(8)  the applicant's demonstrated commitment to a particular field of study;(9)  for admission into a professional program, the current comparative availability of members of that profession in the applicant's region of residence while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school;(10)  whether the applicant was automatically admitted to a general academic teaching institution as an undergraduate student under Section 51.803;  and(11)  the applicant's personal interview.(b)  An applicant's performance on a standardized test may not be used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program as the sole criterion for consideration of the applicant or as the primary criterion to end consideration of the applicant.  If an applicant's performance on a standardized test is used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process, the applicant's performance must also be used to compare the applicant's test score with those of other applicants from similar socioeconomic backgrounds to the extent that those backgrounds can be properly determined and identified by the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit based on information provided in the institution's or unit's admissions or competitive scholarship process.  This subsection does not apply to a standardized test used to measure the English language proficiency of a student who is a graduate of a foreign institution of higher education.(c)  A general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit may not assign a specific weight to any one factor being considered in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admissions and competitive scholarships are first considered for a graduate or professional program under this subchapter, each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit shall publish in the catalog of the institution or unit a description of the factors to be considered by the institution or unit in making those admissions and competitive scholarship decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  Notwithstanding Subsection (d), if compliance with requirements of an accrediting agency effectively prevent a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit from timely publishing the factors to be considered in admissions decisions, the institution may delay publication of the factors, but shall publish the factors as soon as practicable when compliance with accrediting agency requirements permits.
Sec. 51.844.  READMISSION OF CERTAIN MILITARY PERSONNEL TO GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  This section applies only to a person who:(1)  was previously offered admission to, or was enrolled in, a graduate program or professional program at a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit;(2)  did not initially enroll in the program, or withdrew from the program, as applicable, because of the person's deployment as a member of the armed forces of the United States serving on active duty for the purpose of engaging in a combative military operation outside the United States; and(3)  seeks readmission to the program following the person's military deployment under Subdivision (2).(b)  A general academic teaching institution or a medical and dental unit must, regardless of the time since the person was initially offered admission to, or withdrew from, the program, as applicable:(1)  readmit a person to whom this section applies to the applicable graduate or professional program;(2)  apply credit toward the program for any course work previously completed by the person under the program; and(3)  accept a standardized test score previously submitted by that person for admission to the program.
SUBCHAPTER Y-1.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORSSec. 51.881.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Advisory committee" means the committee established under Section 38.202.(2)  "Anaphylaxis" means a sudden, severe, and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction that occurs when a person is exposed to an allergen.(3)  "Campus" means an educational unit under the management and control of an institution of higher education and may include, in addition to the main campus, off-campus and secondary locations, such as branch campuses, teaching locations, and regional centers.(4)  "Epinephrine auto-injector" means a disposable medical drug delivery device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is intended to be used to treat anaphylaxis.(5)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Personnel" means employees of an institution of higher education.(7)  "Physician" means a person who holds a license to practice medicine in this state.
Sec. 51.882.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education may adopt and implement a policy regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of epinephrine auto-injectors on the institution's campus.(b)  If a policy is adopted under Subsection (a), the policy:(1)  must provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis on the institution's campus; and(2)  may provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis at an off-campus event or while in transit to or from an off-campus event sponsored by the institution of higher education.(c)  The commissioner of state health services with advice from the advisory committee shall adopt rules regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of an epinephrine auto-injector on the campus of an institution of higher education subject to a policy adopted under Subsection (a).  The rules must establish:(1)  the number of epinephrine auto-injectors available at each campus;(2)  the process for each institution of higher education to check the inventory of epinephrine auto-injectors at regular intervals for expiration and replacement; and(3)  the amount of training required for personnel or volunteers to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(d)  Each institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a):(1)  must require that the institution's campuses have personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector present; and(2)  shall include the policy in the institution's student handbook or similar publication and publish the policy on the institution's Internet website.(e)  The supply of epinephrine auto-injectors at a campus must be stored in a secure location and be easily accessible to personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(f)  An institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a) shall submit to the Department of State Health Services a copy of the policy and any amendment to the policy adopted by the institution.  The department shall maintain a record of the most recent policy and amendments submitted by each institution under this subsection and shall make that information available to the public on request.
Sec. 51.883.  REPORT ON ADMINISTERING EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTOR.  (a)  Not later than the 10th business day after the date a personnel member or volunteer administers an epinephrine auto-injector in accordance with a policy adopted under Section 51.882(a), the institution of higher education shall report the information required under Subsection (b) to:(1)  the physician who prescribed the epinephrine auto-injector; and(2)  the commissioner of state health services.(b)  The report required under this section must include the following information:(1)  the age of the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector;(2)  whether the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector was a student, a personnel member, or a visitor;(3)  the physical location where the epinephrine auto-injector was administered;(4)  the number of doses of epinephrine auto-injector administered;(5)  the title of the person who administered the epinephrine auto-injector; and(6)  any other information required by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.885.  PRESCRIPTION OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  A physician may prescribe epinephrine auto-injectors in the name of an institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Section 51.882(a).  The physician shall provide the institution with a standing order for the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector to a person reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis.(b)  The standing order under Subsection (a) is not required to be patient-specific, and the epinephrine auto-injector may be administered to a person without an established physician-patient relationship.(c)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, supervision or delegation by a physician is considered adequate if the physician:(1)  periodically reviews the order; and(2)  is available through direct telecommunication as needed for consultation, assistance, and direction.(d)  An order issued under this section must contain:(1)  the name and signature of the prescribing physician;(2)  the name of the institution of higher education to which the order is issued;(3)  the quantity of epinephrine auto-injectors to be obtained and maintained under the order; and(4)  the date of issue.(e)  A pharmacist may dispense an epinephrine auto-injector to an institution of higher education without requiring the name or any other identifying information relating to the user.
Sec. 51.888.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY.  (a)  A person who in good faith takes, or fails to take, any action under this subchapter is immune from civil or criminal liability or disciplinary action resulting from that act or failure to act, including:(1)  issuing an order for epinephrine auto-injectors;(2)  supervising or delegating the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector;(3)  possessing an epinephrine auto-injector;(4)  maintaining an epinephrine auto-injector;(5)  storing an epinephrine auto-injector;(6)  disposing of an epinephrine auto-injector;(7)  prescribing an epinephrine auto-injector;(8)  dispensing an epinephrine auto-injector;(9)  administering, or assisting in administering, an epinephrine auto-injector;(10)  providing, or assisting in providing, training, consultation, or advice in the development, adoption, or implementation of policies, guidelines, rules, or plans; or(11)  undertaking any other act permitted or required under this subchapter.(b)  The immunity provided by Subsection (a) is in addition to other immunity or limitations of liability provided by law.(c)  Notwithstanding any other law, this subchapter does not create a civil, criminal, or administrative cause of action or liability or create a standard of care, obligation, or duty that provides the basis for a cause of action for an act or omission under this subchapter.(d)  An institution of higher education or a campus of an institution of higher education is immune from suit resulting from an act, or failure to act, under this subchapter, including an act or failure to act under related policies and procedures.(e)  A cause of action does not arise from an act or omission described by this section.
Sec. 51.903.  ARCHIVES;  CERTIFIED COPIES.  (a)  The commissioners court of any county or any other custodian of public records may lend to the library of any state-supported institution of higher education, for any period and on any conditions it may determine, any parts of its archives or records that have become mainly of historical value.  The librarian shall give a receipt for any archives or records received.  The librarian may make copies for historical study.(b)  The librarian and the archivist of any state-supported institution of higher education are authorized to make certified copies of public records in the custody of the institution.  These certified copies are valid in law and have the same force and effect for all purposes as if certified by the county clerk or other custodian as otherwise provided by law.  In making a certified copy, the librarian or archivist shall certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the document, and after signing the certificate shall swear to it before any officer authorized to take oaths under the laws of this state.(c)  Nothing in this section affects the authority of the Texas State Librarian concerning public records as currently or later granted by law.
Text of section as amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1088, Sec. 1Sec. 51.904.  STREET CLOSING.  The governing board of an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 in a county having a population of more than 3 million may vacate, abandon, and close a street or alley running through the campus if the institution:(1)  owns all of the real property abutting the street or alley;(2)  owns 20 or more acres of real property at the campus where the street or alley is located;(3)  before the 45th day preceding the date the street or alley is to close, provides to the governing body of the political subdivision owning, controlling, or maintaining the street or alley written notice of the institution's intent to close the street or alley;  and(4)  for each utility line or facility in the affected street or alley that is owned by a governing body described by Subdivision (3) or a franchised utility company:(A)  grants an easement of sufficient size and configuration and with appropriate rights to enable the continued use, operation, and maintenance of the line or facility;  or(B)  moves the line or facility to another location:(i)  on the approval of the appropriate governing body and franchised utility company;  and(ii)  at the sole expense of the institution.
Sec. 51.905.  STATE-OWNED MUSEUM BUILDINGS.  (a)  The governing board of each state-supported institution of higher education commonly referred to as a senior college shall formulate and adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the use of a state-owned museum building located on its campus, including the designation of rooms or areas in honor of donors or other benefactors, if appropriate, and shall administer the expenditure of all state funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of such museum, including restoration or refurbishing of collections.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1975, 64th Leg., p. 1251, ch. 474, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1975.(c)  State funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of a museum located on a college or university campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section which are used or expended conjunctively with funds belonging to a historical society or group incorporated as a nonprofit organization are subject to audit by the state auditor in accordance with Chapter 321, Government Code, including all accounts, books, and other financial records of the state government and the nonprofit corporation pertaining to the expenditure of funds which have been used or expended jointly for constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, or improving such museum.  The state auditor shall prepare a written report or reports of such audit or audits to the Legislative Audit Committee and the governing board of the state-supported institution of higher education.(d)  No employee of a museum located on a campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section, who is paid in whole or in part by state funds may be employed or discharged except with the approval and consent of the governing board of the state-supported institution on which campus the museum is located.
Sec. 51.907.  LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF COURSES THAT MAY BE DROPPED UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an undergraduate student who drops a course at an institution of higher education and only if:(1)  the student was able to drop the course without receiving a grade or incurring an academic penalty;(2)  the student's transcript indicates or will indicate that the student was enrolled in the course; and(3)  the student is not dropping the course in order to withdraw from the institution.(b-1)  This section does not apply to a student enrolled in a competency-based baccalaureate degree program, as defined by Section 56.521.(c)  Except as provided under rules adopted under Subsection (d), an institution of higher education may not permit a student to drop more than six courses, including any course a transfer student has dropped at another institution of higher education, under circumstances described by Subsection (b).(c-1)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course that a student dropped while enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program previously earned by the student.(c-2)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a dual credit or dual enrollment course that a student dropped before graduating from high school.(d)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a policy under which the maximum number of courses a student is permitted to drop under circumstances described by Subsection (b) is less than the maximum number of courses that a student may drop under Subsection (c).(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop more courses under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if good cause exists for dropping more than that number, including:(1)  the student's showing of:(A)  a severe illness or other debilitating condition that affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(B)  the student's responsibility for the care of a sick, injured, or needy person if the provision of care affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(C)  the death of a person who:(i)  is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(ii) is otherwise considered to have a sufficiently close relationship to the student under a rule adopted under this subsection that the person's death is considered to be a showing of good cause; or(D)  the active duty service as a member of the Texas National Guard or the armed forces of the United States of:(i)  the student; or(ii) a person who is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(2)  a disaster declared by the governor under Section 418.014, Government Code, resulting in a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution of a duration that significantly affects the student's ability to participate in coursework, as determined in accordance with a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this subdivision.(e-1)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop one additional course under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if the student:(1)  has reenrolled at the institution following a break in enrollment from the institution or another institution of higher education covering the 24-month period preceding the first class day of the initial semester or other academic term of the student's reenrollment; and (2)  successfully completed at least 50 semester credit hours of course work at an institution of higher education before that break in enrollment.(e-2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course dropped by a student during the 2020 spring semester or summer term or the 2020-2021 academic year because of a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution during the applicable semester or term due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.(f)  In determining the number of courses dropped by a student for purposes of this section, a course, such as a laboratory or discussion course, in which a student is enrolled concurrently with a lecture course is not considered to be a course separate from the lecture course if:(1)  concurrent enrollment in both courses is required; and(2)  in dropping the lecture course, the student would be required to drop the laboratory, discussion, or other course in which the student is concurrently enrolled.
Sec. 51.9095.  STUDENT COMPLIANCE WITH SELECTIVE SERVICE REGISTRATION.  (a)  An individual may not receive a loan, grant, scholarship, or other financial assistance funded by state revenue, including federal funds or gifts and grants accepted by this state, or receive a student loan guaranteed by this state or the Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation, unless the individual files a statement of the individual's selective service status with the institution or other entity granting or guaranteeing the financial assistance as required by this section.(b)  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is registered with the selective service system as required by federal law, the individual is not required to file a statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the same entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is not required to register with the selective service system, the institution or other entity shall require the individual to file a new statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.(c)  This section does not apply to:(1)  a female individual if females are not subject to general selective service registration under federal law;  or(2)  an individual older than the maximum age at which an individual is required to be registered with the selective service system under federal law.(d)  The statement of an individual's selective service status required by this section must require the individual to certify that the individual:(1)  has registered with the selective service system as required by federal law;  or(2)  is exempt from selective service registration under federal law.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education of the required statement and the applicable rules.  The statement must require an individual claiming to be exempt from registration to specify the basis of the exemption.  The coordinating board may require an individual filing a statement of selective service status to include with the statement any additional information or documentation the coordinating board determines appropriate.
Sec. 51.911.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(2)  "Religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.(b)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or other required activities, including examinations, for the observance of a religious holy day, including travel for that purpose.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to take an examination or complete an assignment from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 218, Sec. 2.(d)  A student who is excused under this section may not be penalized for the absence, but the instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination.(e)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, shall adopt rules for the implementation of this section and shall disseminate the rules to the appropriate institutions under its jurisdiction.
Sec. 51.9111.  EXCUSED ABSENCE FOR REQUIRED MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Required military service" includes required military service performed by a member of the Texas National Guard or the Texas State Guard.(b)  This section applies only if:(1)  a student enrolled in an institution of higher education fails to attend classes or engage in other required activities because the student is called to required military service that is of a reasonably brief duration, as determined by rule adopted under Subsection (d); and(2)  the student chooses not to withdraw as authorized by Section 54.006(f).(c)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or engaging in other required activities, including examinations, in order for the student to participate in required military service to which the student is called, including travel associated with the service.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to complete an assignment or take an examination from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.  An instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination within a reasonable time after the absence.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish a maximum period for which a student may be excused under this section.  In establishing that period, the board shall consider the maximum period a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to learn the course material, complete course assignments, and succeed academically during the applicable semester or other academic period.
Sec. 51.9112.  RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS (ROTC) PROGRAM:  FEES AND COURSE CREDIT.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall determine a standard fee for a course offered through a Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program that takes into account the average statewide cost per student to an institution of higher education in providing the program, not including any reimbursement or other amounts the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.  Except as provided by Subsection (b), the governing board of each institution of higher education may not charge a student enrolled in an ROTC course any amount for the course in excess of the fee as determined by the coordinating board under this subsection.(b)  If the governing board of an institution of higher education offers course credit toward a student's degree for a course in which the student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, the governing board may charge the student tuition for that course as otherwise provided by Chapter 54 after subtracting any reimbursement or other amount the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.(c)  To the extent it will not adversely affect the accreditation status of an institution of higher education with the appropriate accrediting agency, the governing board of the institution shall count courses in which a student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, including courses for which the student does not receive course credit toward the student's degree, in determining whether the student is enrolled as a full-time student.
Sec. 51.912.  EQUITY OWNERSHIP;  BUSINESS PARTICIPATION.  (a)  It is not a violation of Chapter 572, Government Code, or any other statute, rule, regulation, or the common law of the State of Texas for:(1)  an employee of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, who conceives, creates, discovers, invents, or develops intellectual property, to own or to be awarded any amount of equity interest or participation in, or, if approved by the institutional governing board, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board or an officer or an employee of, a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of that intellectual property;  or(2)  an individual, at the request and on behalf of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board of a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of intellectual property in which the university system or institution of higher education has an ownership interest.(b)  An employee or individual covered by Subsection (a) of this section must report to the appropriate person or persons at the system or institution at which the person is employed or on behalf of which the person is serving the name of such business entity in which the person has an interest or for which the person serves as a director, officer, or employee.(c)  The governing board of each system and institution shall include in the appropriate annual report required by Section 51.005 the information that is provided to it under Subsection (b) of this section during the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 51.913.  EXECUTIVE SEARCH COMMITTEES.  (a)  As used in this section, the term "executive search committee" shall mean a committee formed by an act of a board of regents of an institution of higher education, which has as its primary purpose the evaluation and assessment of candidates and nominees for the position of chief executive officer of a system administration, institution of higher education, or other agency of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The board of regents shall announce the name, background, and qualifications of any individual it selects and employs by use of such a committee.  Additionally, public notice of the name or names of the finalist or finalists being considered by the search committee must be made public record at least 21 days prior to the meeting at which final action or vote is to be taken on the employment of the individual.
Sec. 51.914.  PROTECTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.  (a)  In order to protect the actual or potential value, the following information is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, or otherwise:(1)  all information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such a product, device, or process, and all technological and scientific information (including computer programs) developed in whole or in part at a state institution of higher education, regardless of whether patentable or capable of being registered under copyright or trademark laws, that have a potential for being sold, traded, or licensed for a fee;(2)  any information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such product, device, or process, and any technological and scientific information (including computer programs) that is the proprietary information of a person, partnership, corporation, or federal agency that has been disclosed to an institution of higher education solely for the purposes of a written research contract or grant that contains a provision prohibiting the institution of higher education from disclosing such proprietary information to third persons or parties; or(3)  the plans, specifications, blueprints, and designs, including related proprietary information, of a scientific research and development facility that is jointly financed by the federal government and a local government or state agency, including an institution of higher education, if the facility is designed and built for the purposes of promoting scientific research and development and increasing the economic development and diversification of this state.(b)  Information maintained by or for an institution of higher education that would reveal the institution's plans or negotiations for commercialization or a proposed research agreement, contract, or grant, or that consists of unpublished research or data that may be commercialized, is not subject to Chapter 552, Government Code, unless the information has been published, is patented, or is otherwise subject to an executed license, sponsored research agreement, or research contract or grant.  In this subsection, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.917.  FACULTY MEMBERS;  USE OF ENGLISH.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but does not include a medical or dental unit.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who teaches a course offered for academic credit by an institution of higher education, including teaching assistants, instructors, lab assistants, research assistants, lecturers, assistant professors, associate professors, and full professors.(3)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a program or a short course the purpose of which is to:(1)  assist faculty members whose primary language is not English to become proficient in the use of English;  and(2)  ensure that courses offered for credit at the institution are taught in the English language and that all faculty members are proficient in the use of the English language, as determined by a satisfactory grade on the "Test of Spoken English" of the Educational Testing Service or a similar test approved by the board.(c)  A faculty member may use a foreign language to conduct foreign language courses designed to be taught in a foreign language.(d)  This section does not prohibit a faculty member from providing individual assistance during course instruction to a non-English-speaking student in the native language of the student.(e)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(15), eff. June 17, 2011.(f)  The cost of such English proficiency course as determined by the coordinating board shall be paid by the faculty member lacking proficiency in English.  A faculty member must take the course until deemed proficient in English by his or her supervisor.  The cost will be deducted from said faculty member's salary.
Sec. 51.918.  RURAL HEALTH;  FAMILY PRACTICE RESIDENCY PROGRAM.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, the Texas Department of Rural Affairs, medical schools, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences shall cooperate to improve and expand programs for rural areas.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall:(1)  encourage and coordinate the creation or expansion of a rural preceptor program among medical schools, teaching hospitals, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences;  and(2)  require family practice residency programs to provide an opportunity for residents to have a one-month rotation through:(A)  a rural setting;  and(B)  a public health setting.(c)  The Texas Department of Rural Affairs shall develop relief service programs for rural physicians and allied health personnel to facilitate ready access to continuing medical education as well as to provide practice coverage for purposes other than continuing medical education.(d)  Each medical school shall:(1)  incorporate a clerkship in family practice during the third core clinical year;  and(2)  report to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board on its efforts to fulfill the intent of Chapter 58, Education Code, of having at least 25 percent of their first year primary care residents in family practice.
Sec. 51.919.  HIV AND AIDS POLICY;  INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome as defined by the Centers for Disease Control of the United States Public Health Service.(2)  "HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall make available the institution's policy on HIV infection and AIDS to students, faculty, and staff members by including the policy in the student handbook and personnel handbook if practicable or by any other method.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall make available to students, on request, the educational pamphlet on HIV infection developed by the Texas Department of Health and shall include in the student handbook a statement that the pamphlet is available from the institution.(d)  The student health center of each institution of higher education shall provide clear, accurate information on how to prevent the transmission of HIV infection, including:(1)  the value of abstinence and long-term mutual monogamy;(2)  information on the efficacy and use of condoms;(3)  offering of or referring students, faculty, or staff members to anonymous HIV counseling and testing services;  and(4)  state laws relating to the transmission and to conduct that may result in the transmission of HIV.(e)  The curricula of medical, dental, nursing, allied health, counseling, and social work degree programs of institutions of higher education shall:(1)  include information about:(A)  methods of transmission and methods of prevention of HIV infection;  and(B)  federal and state laws, rules, and regulations concerning HIV infection and AIDS;  and(2)  give special attention to the physical, emotional, and psychological stress associated with the care of patients with terminal illnesses.
Sec. 51.9191.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS INFORMATION FOR NEW STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "New student" means a first-time student of an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education and includes a student who transfers to the institution from another institution.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide information relating to bacterial meningitis to new students of the institution.  The procedures must provide for the information to be provided in a brochure or other manner so that the information is reasonably likely to come to the attention of each student.  The coordinating board shall prescribe the form and content of the information.  The information must cover:(1)  the symptoms of the disease, how it may be diagnosed, and its possible consequences if untreated;(2)  how the disease is transmitted, how it may be prevented, and the relative risk of contracting the disease for students of institutions of higher education;(3)  the availability and effectiveness of vaccination against and treatment for the disease, including how students of the institution may seek vaccination or treatment and whether a vaccination is available from the student health center, and a brief description of the risks and possible side effects of vaccination;  and(4)  sources of additional information regarding the disease and include the telephone numbers of the student health center, if there is a student health center, and the appropriate office of the Texas Department of Health.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall consult with the Texas Department of Health in prescribing the content of the information to be provided to students under this section.  The coordinating board shall establish an advisory committee to assist the coordinating board in the initial implementation of this section.  The advisory committee must include at least two members who are students at public or private institutions of higher education.(d)  An institution of higher education, with the written consent of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, may provide the information required by this section to new students of the institution by a method different from the method prescribed by the coordinating board under Subsection (b) if the coordinating board determines that method would be effective in bringing the information to the attention of all new students of the institution.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall make reasonable efforts to obtain from each new student of the institution a confirmation signed or acknowledged by the student that the student has received the information required to be provided to the student under this section and shall retain the confirmation for not less than two years after the student first enrolls at the institution.(f)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and the Texas Department of Health shall encourage private or independent institutions of higher education to provide the information prescribed by Subsection (b) to all new students of those institutions.
Sec. 51.9192.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS; EXCEPTIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health practitioner" means any person authorized  by law to administer an immunization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an entering student at an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education.  This section does not apply to a student of an institution who is enrolled only in online or other distance education courses or who is 22 years of age or older.  For purposes of this subsection, "entering student" includes:(1)  a new student, as defined by Section 51.9191; and(2)  a student who previously attended an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education before January 1, 2012, and who is enrolling in the same or another institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education following a break in enrollment of at least one fall or spring semester.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (d), a student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student must provide to the institution, at the time and in the manner prescribed by rules adopted by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, a certificate signed by a health practitioner or an official immunization record evidencing that the student has received a bacterial meningitis vaccination dose or booster during the five-year period preceding the date established by the coordinating board under Subsection (e).(d)  A student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student is not required to comply with Subsection (c) if the student or a parent or guardian of the student submits to the institution:(1)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine in the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the vaccination required would be injurious to the health and well-being of the student; or(2)  an affidavit signed by the student stating that the student declines the vaccination for bacterial meningitis for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief, or confirmation that the student has completed the Internet-based process described by Subsection (d-3) for declining the vaccination on that basis, if applicable to the student.(d-1)  The exemption provided by Subsection (d)(2) does not apply during a disaster or public health emergency, terrorist attack, hostile military or paramilitary action, or extraordinary law enforcement emergency declared by an appropriate official or other authority and in effect for the location of the institution the student attends.(d-2)  An affidavit submitted under Subsection (d)(2) must be:(1)  on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code; and(2)  submitted to the appropriate admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(d-3)  The Department of State Health Services shall develop and implement a secure, Internet-based process to be used exclusively at those public junior colleges that elect to use the process to allow an entering student to apply online for an exemption from the vaccination requirement under this section for reasons of conscience.  The online process portal must be designed to ensure that duplicate exemption requests are avoided to the greatest extent possible.  The exemption form used by a student to claim an exemption under the process must contain a statement indicating that the student understands the benefits and risks of the immunization and the benefits and risks of not receiving the immunization.(d-4)  A public junior college may require an entering student to use the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3) as the exclusive method to apply for an exemption from the vaccination required under this section for reasons of conscience.(d-5)  The Department of State Health Services shall report to the legislature annually the number of exemptions applied for in the preceding academic year using the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3).(d-6)  An institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education shall provide, with the registration materials that the institution provides to a student to whom this section applies before the student's initial enrollment in the institution, written notice of the right of the student or of a parent or guardian of the student to claim an exemption from the vaccination requirement in the manner prescribed by Subsection (d) and of the importance of consulting a physician about the need for immunization to prevent the disease.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education and private or independent institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for the administration of this section, including rules establishing the date by which a student who is required to comply with Subsection (c) must have received the vaccination required by that subsection, which may not be later than the 10th day before the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls unless the student is granted an extension by the institution as provided by the rules adopted under this subsection.  The rules must authorize an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education to extend the compliance date for an individual student to a date that is not later than the 10th day after the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls.(f)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9193.  REQUIRED POSTING OF MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES.  (a) In this section, "local mental health authority" has the meaning assigned by Section 531.002, Health and Safety Code.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(c)  Each institution to which this section applies shall:(1)  create a web page on the institution's Internet website that:(A)  is dedicated solely to information regarding the mental health resources available to students at the institution, regardless of whether the resources are provided by the institution; and(B)  includes the address of the nearest local mental health authority; and(2)  maintain a conspicuous link on the institution's Internet website home page to the web page described by Subdivision (1).(d)  Not later than August 1 of each year, the president or the president's designee of an institution to which this section applies shall certify to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board the institution's compliance with this section.
Sec. 51.9194.  REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR ENTERING STUDENTS REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH AND SUICIDE PREVENTION SERVICES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall provide to each entering undergraduate, graduate, or professional student, including each undergraduate, graduate, or professional student who transfers to the institution, information about:(1)  available mental health and suicide prevention services offered by the institution or by any associated organizations or programs; and(2)  early warning signs that are often present in and appropriate intervention for a person who may be considering suicide.(c)  The information required under this section:(1)  may be provided through:(A)  a live presentation; or(B)  a format that allows for student interaction, such as an online program or video;(2)  may not be provided in a paper format only; and(3)  must include a campus map identifying any location at which mental health services are provided to students on campus and information regarding how to access the services.(d)  If an institution of higher education provides a tour during an on-campus orientation for entering students, the tour must identify at least one location described by Subsection (c)(3) that is available for use by all students of the institution.
Sec. 51.91941.  SUICIDE PREVENTION INFORMATION REQUIRED ON STUDENT IDENTIFICATION CARD.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each student identification card issued by an institution of higher education:(1)  must have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; and(B)  the Crisis Text Line; and(2)  may have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the campus police department or security for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a campus police department or security, a local nonemergency police contact;(B)  the campus health clinic for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a health clinic, a local health clinic; and(C)  a local suicide prevention hotline, if available.
Sec. 51.9195.  INFORMATION FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS REGARDING BENEFITS OF TIMELY GRADUATION.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" and "public state college" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution other than a public state college.(c)  An institution to which this section applies shall provide to each first-time entering undergraduate student, including each undergraduate student who transfers to the institution, information in electronic or paper format that includes, based on a reasonable projection by the institution using the most recently available data:(1)  a comparison of the average total amounts of tuition and fees paid by a full-time student who graduates from the institution in the following number of academic years:(A)  four years;(B)  five years; and(C)  six years; and(2)  an estimate of the average earnings lost by a recent graduate of the institution as a result of graduating after five or six years instead of four years.(d)  An institution to which this section applies shall include with the information provided to a student under Subsection (c):(1)  a list of actions that the student can take to facilitate graduating from the institution in a timely manner; and(2)  contact information for available academic, career, and other related support services at the institution to assist the student in that effort.(e)  An institution to which this section applies may satisfy the requirements of Subsections (c)(1) and (2) with regard to a student by providing the student with information that is more specific than the information described by those subdivisions.
Sec. 51.921.  POSTING OF STEROID LAW NOTICE.  Each public institution of higher education shall post in a conspicuous location in each gymnasium at the institution the following notice:Anabolic steroids and growth hormones are for medical use only.  State law prohibits the possession, dispensing, delivery, or administering of an anabolic steroid or growth hormone in any manner not allowed by state law.  State law provides that body building, muscle enhancement, or increasing muscle bulk or strength through the use of an anabolic steroid by a person who is in good health is not a valid medical purpose.  Only a medical doctor may prescribe an anabolic steroid or human growth hormone for a person.  A violation of state law concerning anabolic steroids or human growth hormones is a criminal offense punishable by confinement in jail or imprisonment in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.
Sec. 51.923.  QUALIFICATIONS OF CERTAIN BUSINESS ENTITIES TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Business entity" means any entity recognized by law through which business is conducted, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, or trust.(2)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Nonprofit corporation" means any organization exempt from federal income tax under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that does not distribute any part of its income to any member, director, or officer.(b)  A nonprofit corporation is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education also serves as a member, director, officer, or employee of the nonprofit corporation.(c)  A business entity is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education have an interest in the business entity, subject to Subsection (d).(d)  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from entering into a contract or other transaction with a business entity in which a member of the governing board of the institution of higher education has an interest if the interest is not a substantial interest or, if the interest is a substantial interest, the board member discloses that interest in a meeting held in compliance with Chapter 551, Government Code, and refrains from voting on the contract or transaction requiring board approval.  Any such contract or transaction requiring board approval must be approved by an affirmative majority of the board members voting on the contract or transaction.(e)  For purposes of this section, a member of a governing board has a substantial interest in a business entity if:(1)  the member owns one percent or more of the voting stock or shares of the business entity or owns either one percent or more or $15,000 or more of the fair market value of the business entity;(2)  funds received by the member from the business entity exceed one percent of the member's gross income for the previous year;(3)  the member is an officer of the business entity or a member of the governing board of the business entity; or(4)  an individual related to the member in the first degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Chapter 573, Government Code, has an interest in the business entity as described by Subdivision (1), (2), or (3).(f)  A violation of this section does not render an action of the governing board voidable unless the contract or transaction that was the subject of the action would not have been approved by the governing board without the vote of the member who violated this section.
Sec. 51.9241.  ADMISSION OF STUDENT WITH NONTRADITIONAL SECONDARY EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Nontraditional secondary education" means a course of study at the secondary school level in a nonaccredited private school setting, including a home school.(b)  Because the State of Texas considers successful completion of a nontraditional secondary education to be equivalent to graduation from a public high school, an institution of higher education must treat an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education according to the same general standards, including specific standardized testing score requirements, as other applicants for undergraduate admission who have graduated from a public high school.(c)  An institution of higher education may not require an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education to:(1)  obtain or submit evidence that the person has obtained a general education development certificate, certificate of high school equivalency, or other credentials equivalent to a public high school degree;  or(2)  take an examination or comply with any other application or admission requirement not generally applicable to other applicants for undergraduate admission to the institution.(d)  If an institution of higher education in its undergraduate admission review process sorts applicants by high school graduating class rank, the institution shall place any applicant who presents evidence that the applicant has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education that does not include a high school graduating class ranking at the average high school graduating class rank of undergraduate applicants to the institution who have equivalent standardized testing scores as the applicant.
Sec. 51.9242.  READMISSION OF STUDENT WHO WITHDRAWS TO PERFORM ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  This section applies only to a student who withdraws from an institution of higher education to perform active military service as a member of the United States armed forces or the Texas National Guard, except that this section does not apply to a student who withdraws from an institution solely to perform one or more training exercises as a member of the Texas National Guard.(b)  For any academic term that begins after the date a student described by Subsection (a) is released from active military service but not later than the first anniversary of that date, the institution of higher education from which the student withdrew shall readmit the student, without requiring reapplication or charging a fee for readmission, if the student is otherwise eligible to register for classes at the institution.  On readmission of the student under this subsection, the institution shall:(1)  provide to the student any financial assistance previously provided by the institution to the student before the student's withdrawal if the student meets current eligibility requirements for the assistance, other than any requirement directly affected by the student's service, such as continuous enrollment or another similar timing requirement; and(2)  allow the student the same academic status that the student had before the student's withdrawal, including any course credit awarded to the student by the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's active military service.
Sec. 51.9245.  ADMISSION OF PERSON RECEIVING ATHLETIC SCHOLARSHIP.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution may not admit an applicant who has been promised or granted an athletic scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance conditioned on the student's participation in a sport, game, or other competition involving substantial physical ability or physical skill for or on a team organized or sponsored by the general academic teaching institution that is funded by state funds unless:(1)  if the general academic teaching institution requires a minimum high school grade point average as an admissions criterion for any entering freshman, that minimum applies to all freshmen being admitted;  or(2)  for an applicant other than an entering freshman, the applicant's cumulative college-level grade point average is equal to or greater than the minimum cumulative college-level grade point average required for an undergraduate student to remain enrolled at the institution in the preceding academic year.
Sec. 51.9246.  COMPENSATION AND PROFESSIONAL REPRESENTATION OF STUDENT ATHLETES PARTICIPATING IN INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athlete agent" has the meaning assigned by Section 2051.001, Occupations Code.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Honor code" means a set of rules or principles governing an academic community to which a student agrees to abide when attending an institution to which this section applies.(4)  "Institutional contract" means a contract between an institution to which this section applies or its designated representative and an external party that includes a sponsorship agreement governing the use of the institution's trademarks in connection with athletics.(5)  "Team contract" means a contract between a student athlete and an institution to which this section applies and includes any rules or expectations of the institution's athletic department or head coach that require a student athlete's compliance as a condition under the contract of participation as a member of the intercollegiate athletic program.(a-1)  For purposes of this section, official team activities of an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies include any activity the institution designates as an official team activity.(b)  This section applies only to:(1)  a general academic teaching institution; or(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(c)  An institution to which this section applies may not:(1)  adopt or enforce a policy, requirement, standard, or limitation that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution from:(A)  earning compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities, as that term is defined by the institution; or(B)  obtaining professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; or(2)  provide or solicit a prospective student athlete of an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution with compensation in relation to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(c-1)  An athletic association, an athletic conference, or any other group or organization with authority over an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not enforce a contract term, a rule, a regulation, a standard, or any other requirement that prohibits the institution from participating in intercollegiate athletics or otherwise penalizes the institution or the institution's intercollegiate athletic program for performing, participating in, or allowing an activity required or authorized by this section.(d)  A scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded to a student athlete by an institution to which this section applies that covers the student athlete's cost of attendance at the institution is not compensation for purposes of this section.(e)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not be disqualified from eligibility for a scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded by the institution because the student athlete:(1)  earns compensation from the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities; or(2)  obtains professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(f)  An institution to which this section applies may not prescribe a team contract for an intercollegiate athletic program that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete from using the student athlete's name, image, or likeness for a commercial purpose when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities.(g)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies:(1)  shall, before entering into the contract, disclose to the institution, in the manner prescribed by the institution, any proposed contract the student athlete may sign for use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness;(2)  may not enter into a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness if:(A)  any provision of the contract conflicts with a provision of the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution;(B)  the compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is provided:(i)  in exchange for athletic performance or accepting an offer of admission to attend the institution;(ii)  by the institution;(iii)  in exchange for an act that occurs while the athlete is engaged in an official team activity; or(iv)  in exchange for an endorsement of alcohol, tobacco products, e-cigarettes or any other type of nicotine delivery device, anabolic steroids, sports betting, casino gambling, a firearm the student athlete cannot legally purchase, or a sexually oriented business as defined in Section 243.002, Local Government Code; or(C)  the duration of the contract extends beyond the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(3)  is not considered an employee of the institution based on the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(4)  may earn compensation from selling the student athlete's autograph in a manner that does not otherwise conflict with a provision of this section; and(5)  may not use an institution's facility, uniform, registered trademark, copyright-protected product, or official logo, mark, or other indicia in connection with a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness unless the student athlete obtains the institution's express permission.(g-1)  The following activities do not constitute compensation provided by an institution to which this section applies under Subsection (g)(2)(B)(ii):(1)  an activity authorized under Subsection (m); or(2)  recognition by an institution to which this section applies of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness, or the entity's donors, including the institution's provision of priority status or other items of de minimis value equivalent to status or items the institution provides to the institution's donors.(g-2)  An institution may not authorize a use described by Subsection (g)(5) unless the institution requires that:(1)  the student athlete and the person contracting for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness comply with any requirements the institution establishes, including requirements related to licensing; and(2)  the institution is compensated for the use in an amount consistent with market rates.(h)  An institution to which this section applies that identifies a provision in a contract disclosed to the institution by a student athlete under Subsection (g)(1) that conflicts with a provision in the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution shall promptly disclose the conflict to the student athlete or the student athlete's representative, if applicable.  The student athlete or the student athlete's representative is responsible for resolving the conflict not later than the 10th day after the date of the disclosure.(i)  An institution to which this section applies shall require a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution to attend a financial literacy and life skills course during the student's first academic year at the institution.  The course must be at least five hours in duration and include information on financial aid, debt management, time management, budgeting, and academic resources available to the student athlete.  The institution may not during the course allow any provider of financial products or services to:(1)  market, advertise, or refer the provider's services to a student athlete; or(2)  solicit a student athlete to use the provider's services.(j)  No individual, corporate entity, or other organization may:(1)  enter into any arrangement with a prospective student athlete relating to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness prior to their enrollment in an institution of higher education; or(2)  use inducements of future name, image, and likeness compensation arrangement to recruit a prospective student athlete to any institution of higher education.(k)  Nothing in this section may be construed as permitting an athlete agent to take any action prohibited under Section 2051.351, Occupations Code.(l)  Information written, produced, collected, assembled, or maintained by an institution to which this section applies that includes or reveals any term of a contract or proposed contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is confidential and excepted from required public disclosure in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.  An institution to which this section applies may withhold information described by this subsection without requesting a decision from the attorney general under Subchapter G, Chapter 552, Government Code.(m)  An institution to which this section applies or third-party entity acting on the institution's behalf, or employee of the institution or third-party entity:(1)  may identify, create, facilitate, or otherwise assist with opportunities for a currently enrolled student athlete to earn compensation from a third party for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; and(2)  may not, in assisting a student athlete as described by Subdivision (1):(A)  act as an athlete agent for the student athlete;(B)  be compensated by the student athlete or third party for providing the assistance;(C)  attempt to influence the student athlete's choice of professional representation in connection with an opportunity; or(D)  attempt to diminish the student athlete's opportunities from competing third parties.(n)  A charitable organization exempt from taxation under Section 501(a), Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as an organization described by Section 501(c)(3) of that code, may compensate a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(o)  An activity of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness may not be construed as an act on behalf of an institution to which this section applies, provided that:(1)  the entity is a separate legal entity from the institution; and(2)  the institution does not own or control the entity.(p)  This section may not be construed as creating a cause of action against an institution or an institution's officers or employees relating to a student athlete's name, image, or likeness.
Sec. 51.925.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not discriminate against or penalize in any way a member of the faculty of the institution who is absent from work for the observance of a religious holy day and gives proper notice of that absence if the customary and generally applicable educational practices of the institution permit general personal absence by members of the faculty. If personal absence is customarily penalized, the penalty for absence due to observance of a religious holy day under this section shall be forfeiture of one day's pay equivalent for each day of absence.(b)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, except that the term includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(c)  In this section, "proper notice" means that the faculty member shall provide a listing of religious holy days to be observed during the semester to the chairman of the department and shall provide notice of such days in advance to all students whose class would be canceled due to the faculty member's absence.  Notice herein shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered to the chairman of the department, receipt therefor being acknowledged and dated by the chairman, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the chairman.(d)  In this section, "religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.
Sec. 51.926.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR QUALIFIED RETIREMENT PLANS.  (a)  On written authorization from a football coach who is entitled to participate in a qualified football coaches plan, an institution of higher education may:(1)  enter into a salary reduction agreement under which the salary of the coach is reduced by the amount of contribution to the plan;  and(2)  remit such contribution to the plan for credit to the coach's plan account.(b)  A person who participates in a qualified football coaches plan may also participate in another retirement plan or be a member of a retirement system established by law for employees of institutions of higher education.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "Qualified football coaches plan" means a retirement plan under Title 29 U.S.C. Section 1002(37)(F).
Sec. 51.927.  ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS.(a)  In this section, "energy savings performance contract" has the meaning assigned by Section 302.001, Local Government Code.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an energy savings performance contract in accordance with this section.(c)  Each energy or water conservation measure must comply with current local, state, and federal construction, plumbing, and environmental codes and regulations.  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), an energy savings performance contract may not include improvements or equipment that allow or cause water from any condensing, cooling, or industrial process or any system of nonpotable usage over which the public water supply system officials do not have sanitary control, to be returned to the potable water supply.(d)  The board may enter into energy savings performance contracts only with entities that are experienced in the design, implementation, and installation of the energy or water conservation measures addressed by the contract.(e)  Before entering into an energy savings performance contract, the board shall require the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to file with the board a payment and performance bond in accordance with Chapter 2253, Government Code.  The board may also require a separate bond to cover the value of the guaranteed savings on the contract.(f)  The board may enter into an energy savings performance contract for a period of more than one year only if the board finds that the amount the institution would spend on the energy or water conservation measures will not exceed the amount to be saved in energy, water, wastewater, and operating costs over 20 years from the date of installation.  If the term of the contract exceeds one year, the institution's contractual obligation in any year during the term of the contract beginning after the final date of installation may not exceed the total energy, water, wastewater, and operating cost savings, including electrical, gas, water, wastewater, or other utility cost savings and operating cost savings resulting from the measures, as determined by the board in this subsection, divided by the number of years in the contract term beginning after the final date of installation.  The board shall consider all costs of the energy or water conservation measures, including costs of design, engineering, installation, maintenance, repairs, and debt service.(g)  An energy savings performance contract may be financed:(1)  under a lease/purchase contract that has a term not to exceed 20 years from the final date of installation and that meets federal tax requirements for tax-free municipal leasing or long-term financing, including a lease/purchase contract under the master equipment lease purchase program administered by the Texas Public Finance Authority under Chapter 1232, Government Code;(2)  with the proceeds of bonds; or(3)  under a contract with the provider of the energy or water conservation measures that has a term not to exceed the lesser of 20 years from the final date of installation or the average useful life of the energy or water conservation or usage measures.(g-1)  Notwithstanding other law, the board may use any available money to pay the provider of the energy or water conservation measures under this section, and the board is not required to pay for such costs solely out of the savings realized by the institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract.  The board may contract with the provider to perform work that is related to, connected with, or otherwise ancillary to the measures identified in the scope of an energy savings performance contract.(h)  An energy savings performance contract shall contain provisions requiring the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to guarantee the amount of the savings to be realized by the institution of higher education under the contract.(i)  An energy savings performance contract shall be let according to the procedures established for procuring certain professional services by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  Notice of the request for qualifications shall be given in the manner provided by Section 2156.002, Government Code.  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with the State Energy Conservation Office with regard to energy and water conservation measures, shall establish guidelines and an approval process for awarding energy savings performance contracts.  The guidelines must require that the cost savings projected by an offeror be reviewed by a licensed professional engineer who has a minimum of three years of experience in energy calculation and review, is not an officer or employee of an offeror for the contract under review, and is not otherwise associated with the contract.  In conducting the review, the engineer shall focus primarily on the proposed improvements from an engineering perspective, the methodology and calculations related to cost savings, increases in revenue, and, if applicable, efficiency or accuracy of metering equipment.  An engineer who reviews a contract shall maintain the confidentiality of any proprietary information the engineer acquires while reviewing the contract.  A contract is not required to be reviewed or approved by the State Energy Conservation Office.  Sections 1001.053 and 1001.407, Occupations Code, apply to work performed under the contract.(j)  The legislature shall base an institution's appropriation for energy, water, and wastewater costs during a fiscal year on the sum of:(1)  the institution's estimated energy, water, and wastewater costs for that fiscal year;  and(2)  if an energy savings performance contract is in effect, the institution's estimated net savings resulting from the contract during the contract term, divided by the number of years in the contract term.(k)  Chapter 2269, Government Code, does not apply to this section.(l)  The guidelines established under Subsection (i) must require the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to:(1)  review any reports submitted to the board that measure and verify cost savings to an institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract; and(2)  based on the reports, provide an analysis, on a periodic basis, of the cost savings under the energy savings performance contract to the governing board of the institution of higher education and the Legislative Budget Board until the governing board of the institution of higher education determines that the analysis is no longer required to accurately measure cost savings.
Added by Acts 1991, 72nd Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 8, Sec. 3.07, eff. Sept. 1, 1991.  Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 76, Sec. 5.95(92), eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 773, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 165, Sec. 17.19, eff. Sept. 1, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1142, Sec. 2, eff. June 19, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 627, Sec. 1, eff. June 11, 1997;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 62, Sec. 4.03, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 361, Sec. 2, eff. Sept;  1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1450, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  ;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 573, Sec. 3, 4, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1319, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1310, Sec. 6, 121(2), eff. June 20, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 527 (S.B. 831), Sec. 2, eff. June 16, 2007.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 982 (H.B. 1728), Sec. 3, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1129 (H.B. 628), Sec. 3.02, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 161 (S.B. 1093), Sec. 22.002(7), eff. September 1, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 537 (S.B. 533), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 258 (H.B. 1571), Sec. 2, eff. May 29, 2017.
Sec. 51.929.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT BY CERTAIN RETAIL STORES.  (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this section, a retail store that is owned or operated by an institution of higher education may not enter into a transaction for the sale or lease of goods or services in which the institution extends the credit of the state to the obligor.(b)  This section does not apply to an extension of credit to a student for the purchase of books or other educational supplies if the credit may be offset against undistributed grant or loan funds that are held by the institution for the student or that the institution is entitled to receive on behalf of the student.  The institution may not withhold grant or loan funds to require the student to purchase books or educational supplies from a store that it owns or operates.(c)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.
Sec. 51.930.  NATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "National student exchange program" means the program administered by the National Student Exchange, a nonprofit corporation.(b)  General academic teaching institutions may participate in the national student exchange program for the purpose of providing reciprocal educational opportunities for undergraduate students of colleges and universities in the United States.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules relating to the participation of institutions of higher education and students in the national student exchange program.(d)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 54.051 of this code, a nonresident exchange student participating in the program may be charged the resident tuition rate during the period of participation in the program.(e)  A student participating in the program from another state shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 51.306 of this code unless that student becomes a degree-seeking undergraduate student at a Texas public institution of higher education.(f)  A student may not participate in the program for more than one year.
Sec. 51.931.  RIGHT TO AN ACADEMIC FRESH START.  (a)  This section applies to any public institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Unless otherwise prohibited by law, a resident of this state is entitled to apply for admission to and enroll as an undergraduate student in any public institution of higher education under this section.(c)  If an applicant elects to seek admission under this section, a public institution of higher education, in considering the applicant for admission, shall not consider academic course credits or grades earned by the applicant 10 or more years prior to the starting date of the semester in which the applicant seeks to enroll.  An applicant who makes the election to apply under this section and is admitted as a student may not receive any course credit for courses undertaken 10 or more years prior to enrollment under this section.(d)  If a student who enrolls under this section completes a prescribed course of study, earns a baccalaureate degree, and applies for admission to a postgraduate or professional program offered by a public institution of higher education, the institution, in considering the applicant for admission into the postgraduate or professional program, shall consider only the grade point average of the applicant established by the course work completed after enrollment under this section, along with any other criteria the institution uses in evaluating applicants for admission into the postgraduate or professional program.(e)  Nothing in this section prohibits a public institution of higher education from applying standard admissions criteria generally applicable to persons seeking admission to the institution.
Sec. 51.9315.  PROTECTED EXPRESSION ON CAMPUS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Benefit" includes:(A)  recognition by or registration with an institution of higher education;(B)  the use of an institution of higher education's facilities for meetings or speaking purposes;(C)  the use of channels of communication controlled by an institution of higher education; and(D)  funding sources made generally available to student organizations at an institution of higher education.(2)  "Expressive activities" means any speech or expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or by Section 8, Article I, Texas Constitution, and includes assemblies, protests, speeches, the distribution of written material, the carrying of signs, and the circulation of petitions.  The term does not include commercial speech.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at an institution of higher education and that receives a benefit from the institution.(b)  It is the policy of this state and the purpose of this section to protect the expressive rights of persons guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States and of this state by:(1)  recognizing freedom of speech and assembly as central to the mission of institutions of higher education; and(2)  ensuring that all persons may assemble peaceably on the campuses of institutions of higher education for expressive activities, including to listen to or observe the expressive activities of others.(c)  An institution of higher education shall:(1)  ensure that the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus are deemed traditional public forums; and(2)  permit any person to engage in expressive activities in those areas of the institution's campus freely, as long as the person's conduct:(A)  is not unlawful; and(B)  does not materially and substantially disrupt the functioning of the institution.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may adopt a policy that imposes reasonable restrictions on the time, place, and manner of expressive activities in the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus if those restrictions:(1)  are narrowly tailored to serve a significant institutional interest;(2)  employ clear, published, content-neutral, and viewpoint-neutral criteria;(3)  provide for ample alternative means of expression; and(4)  allow members of the university community to assemble or distribute written material without a permit or other permission from the institution.(e)  Subsections (c) and (d) do not:(1)  limit the right of student expression at other campus locations; or(2)  prohibit faculty members from maintaining order in the classroom.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy detailing students' rights and responsibilities regarding expressive activities at the institution.  The policy must:(1)  allow:(A)  any person to, subject to reasonable restrictions adopted under Subsection (d), engage in expressive activities on campus, including by responding to the expressive activities of others; and(B)  student organizations and faculty to, subject to Subsection (h), invite speakers to speak on campus;(2)  establish disciplinary sanctions for students, student organizations, or faculty who unduly interfere with the expressive activities of others on campus;(3)  include a grievance procedure for addressing complaints of a violation of this section;(4)  be approved by a majority vote of the institution's governing board before final adoption; and(5)  be posted on the institution's Internet website.(g)  An institution of higher education may not take action against a student organization or deny the organization any benefit generally available to other student organizations at the institution on the basis of a political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic viewpoint expressed by the organization or of any expressive activities of the organization.(h)  In determining whether to approve a speaker to speak on campus or in determining the amount of a fee to be charged for use of the institution's facilities for purposes of engaging in expressive activities, an institution of higher education:(1)  may consider only content-neutral and viewpoint-neutral criteria related to the needs of the event, such as:(A)  the proposed venue and the expected size of the audience;(B)  any anticipated need for campus security;(C)  any necessary accommodations; and(D)  any relevant history of compliance or noncompliance by the requesting student organization or faculty member with the institution's policy adopted under Subsection (f) and any other relevant policies; and(2)  may not consider any anticipated controversy related to the event.(i)  Each institution of higher education shall make the institution's policies adopted in accordance with this section available to students enrolled at and employees of the institution by:(1)  including the policies in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook;(2)  providing a copy of each policy to students during the institution's freshman or transfer student orientation; and(3)  posting the policies on the institution's Internet website.(j)  Each institution of higher education shall develop materials, programs, and procedures to ensure that the institution's employees responsible for educating or disciplining students understand the requirements of this section and all policies adopted by the institution in accordance with this section.
Sec. 51.932.  MOTOR VEHICLES OWNED AND USED BY STATE-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  A motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that is the property of and used exclusively by any institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 must have the name of the institution printed on the side of the vehicle.  The inscription must be in a color sufficiently different from the body of the vehicle and must be of letters of sufficient height so that the lettering is plainly legible at a distance of not less than 100 feet.  This subsection does not apply to a motor vehicle used by:(1)  a peace officer commissioned under Subchapter E;  or(2)  a chancellor or president of an institution of higher education.(b)  A person commits an offense if the person operates a vehicle subject to Subsection (a) without the proper inscription.  An offense under this subsection is a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.9325.  RETIREMENT INCENTIVES.  (a)  A medical and dental unit may offer a retirement incentive to an employee of the unit who is eligible to retire under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(b)  A medical and dental unit offering a retirement incentive plan shall file the plan with the Legislative Budget Board not later than the 61st day before the date the plan is implemented and shall provide the board with any information concerning the plan required by the board.(c)  A medical and dental unit may not rehire an employee receiving a retirement incentive under this section without the specific approval of the president of the unit.  The president may not delegate this responsibility to any other employee of the unit.(d)  A retirement incentive offered to an employee by a medical and dental unit under this section must be paid from institutional funds or hospital or clinic fees.(e)  A retirement incentive paid by a medical and dental unit to an employee is not subject to any provision of state law that entitles the employee to benefits based on salary or compensation, including contributions under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(f)  In this section:(1)  "Institutional funds" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.009(b).(2)  "Medical and dental unit" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.
Sec. 51.933.  IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS;  EXCEPTION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may require applicants for admission to be immunized against diphtheria, rubeola, rubella, mumps, tetanus, and poliomyelitis, except as provided in Subsection (d).(b)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission may require immunizations against the diseases listed in Subsection (a) and additional diseases for students at any institution of higher education who are pursuing a course of study in a human or animal health profession, and the executive commissioner may require those immunizations for any students in times of an emergency or epidemic in a county where the commissioner of state health services has declared such an emergency or epidemic.(b-1)  A rule adopted under Subsection (b) that requires a hepatitis B vaccination for students may apply only to students enrolled in a course of study that involves potential exposure to human or animal blood or bodily fluids.(c)  An institution of higher education, in conjunction with the Department of State Health Services, should provide individual notice to each student applying for admission regarding:(1)  the consequences of not being current on immunization for certain diseases;(2)  the age groups most vulnerable to these vaccine preventable diseases;  and(3)  local providers of immunization services.(d)  No form of immunization is required for a person's admission to an institution of higher education if the person applying for admission:(1)  submits to the admitting official:(A)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine within the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the immunization required poses a significant risk to the health and well-being of the applicant or any member of the applicant's family or household;  or(B)  an affidavit signed by the applicant or, if a minor, by the applicant's parent or guardian stating that the applicant declines immunization for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief;  or(2)  is a member of the armed forces of the United States and is on active duty.(d-1)  An affidavit submitted under Section (d)(1)(B) must be on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code, and must be submitted to the admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(e)  The exception provided by Subsection (d)(1)(B) does not apply in a time of emergency or epidemic declared by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.9335.  ACQUISITION OF GOODS AND SERVICES.  (a)  An institution of higher education may acquire goods or services by the method that provides the best value to the institution, including:(1)  competitive bidding;(2)  competitive sealed proposals;(3)  a catalogue purchase;(4)  a group purchasing program;  or(5)  an open market contract.(b)  In determining what is the best value to an institution of higher education, the institution shall consider:(1)  the purchase price;(2)  the reputation of the vendor and of the vendor's goods or services;(3)  the quality of the vendor's goods or services;(4)  the extent to which the goods or services meet the institution's needs;(5)  the vendor's past relationship with the institution;(6)  the impact on the ability of the institution to comply with laws and rules relating to historically underutilized businesses and to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities;(7)  the total long-term cost to the institution of acquiring the vendor's goods or services;(8)  any other relevant factor that a private business entity would consider in selecting a vendor;  and(9)  the use of material in construction or repair to real property that is not proprietary to a single vendor unless the institution provides written justification in the request for bids for use of the unique material specified.(c)  The state auditor may audit purchases of goods or services by an institution of higher education or by a component of an institution of higher education that purchases goods and services.(d)  Subject to Section 51.9337, Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Subchapter B, Chapter 2254, Government Code, do not apply to the acquisition of goods and services under this section, except that an institution of higher education must comply with any provision of those laws, or a rule adopted under a provision of those laws, relating to contracting with historically underutilized businesses or relating to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities.  An institution of higher education may, but is not required to, acquire goods or services as provided by Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center or a public junior college.(f)  This section does not apply to professional services as defined by Section 2254.002, Government Code.  Professional services shall be procured in accordance with Subchapter A, Chapter 2254, Government Code.(g)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules and procedures for the acquisition of goods or services.(h)  In any contract for the acquisition of goods and services to which an institution of higher education is a party, a provision required by applicable law to be included in the contract is considered to be a part of the executed contract without regard to:(1)  whether the provision appears on the face of the contract; or(2)  whether the contract includes any provision to the contrary.
Sec. 51.9337.  PURCHASING AUTHORITY CONDITIONAL; REQUIRED STANDARDS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not exercise the acquisition authority granted by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 unless the institution complies with this section.  An institution that is determined under Subsection (j) to not be in compliance with this section is subject to the laws governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code.(b)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education by rule shall establish for each institution under the management and control of the board:(1)  a code of ethics for the institution's officers and employees, including provisions governing officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, subject to Subsection (c);(2)  policies for the internal investigation of suspected defalcation, misappropriation, and other fiscal irregularities and an institutional or systemwide compliance program designed to promote ethical behavior and ensure compliance with all applicable policies, laws, and rules governing higher education, including research and health care to the extent applicable;(3)  a contract management handbook that provides consistent contracting policies and practices and contract review procedures, including a risk analysis procedure, subject to Subsection (d);(4)  contracting delegation guidelines, subject to Subsections (e) and (f);(5)  training for officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, including training in ethics, selection of appropriate procurement methods, and information resources purchasing technologies; and(6)  internal audit protocols, subject to Subsection (g).(c)  The code of ethics governing an institution of higher education must include:(1)  general standards of conduct and a statement that each officer or employee is expected to obey all federal, state, and local laws and is subject to disciplinary action for a violation of those laws;(2)  policies governing conflicts of interest, conflicts of commitment, and outside activities, ensuring that the primary responsibility of officers and employees is to accomplish the duties and responsibilities assigned to that position;(3)  a conflict of interest policy that prohibits employees from having a direct or indirect financial or other interest, engaging in a business transaction or professional activity, or incurring any obligation that is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the employee's duties related to the public interest;(4)  a conflict of commitment policy that prohibits an employee's activities outside the institution from interfering with the employee's duties and responsibilities to the institution;(5)  a policy governing an officer's or employee's outside activities, including compensated employment and board service, that clearly delineates the nature and amount of permissible outside activities and that includes processes for disclosing the outside activities and for obtaining and documenting institutional approval to perform the activities;(6)  a policy that prohibits an officer or employee from acting as an agent for another person in the negotiation of the terms of an agreement relating to the provision of money, services, or property to the institution;(7)  a policy governing the use of institutional resources; and(8)  a policy providing for the regular training of officers and employees on the policies described by this subsection.(d)  An institution of higher education shall establish contract review procedures and a contract review checklist that must be reviewed and approved by the institution's legal counsel before implementation.  The review procedures and checklist must include:(1)  a description of each step of the procedure that an institution must use to evaluate and process contracts;(2)  a checklist that describes each process that must be completed before contract execution; and(3)  a value threshold that initiates the required review by the institution's legal counsel unless the contract is a standard contract previously approved by the counsel.(e)  An institution of higher education's policies governing contracting authority must clearly specify the types and values of contracts that must be approved by the board of regents and the types and values of contracts for which contracting authority is delegated by the board to the chief executive officer and by the chief executive officer to other officers and employees of the institution.  An officer or employee may not execute a document for the board unless the officer or employee has authority to act for the board and the authority is exercised in compliance with applicable conditions and restrictions.(f)  An institution of higher education may not enter into a contract with a value of more than $1 million, including any amendment, extension, or renewal of the contract that increases the value of the original contract to more than $1 million, unless the institution's board of regents approves the contract, expressly delegates authority to exceed that amount, or expressly adopts an exception for that contract.  The board must approve any amendment, extension, or renewal of a contract with a value that exceeds 25 percent of the value of the original contract approved by the board unless the authority to exceed the approved amount is expressly delegated by the board or an exception is expressly adopted by the board for that contract.(g)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education shall adopt standards for internal audits conducted by the institution to provide a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the institution's risk management, control, and governance processes related to contracts and to require risk-based testing of contract administration.  The internal auditor must have full and unrestricted access to all institutional property, personnel, and records.  An internal auditor must report directly to the board of regents in accordance with Chapter 2102, Government Code.(h)  The chief auditor of an institution of higher education shall annually assess whether the institution has adopted the rules and policies required by this section and shall submit a report of findings to the state auditor.  In auditing the purchase of goods and services by the institution, the state auditor shall determine whether an institution has adopted the required rules and policies.(i)  If the state auditor determines that an institution of higher education has failed to adopt the required rules and policies, the auditor shall report that failure to the legislature and to the institution's board of regents and shall, in consultation with the institution, adopt a remediation plan to bring the institution into compliance.  If the institution fails to comply within the time established by the state auditor, the auditor shall find the institution to be in noncompliance and report that finding to the legislature and comptroller.(j)  In accordance with a schedule adopted by the state auditor in consultation with the comptroller, the authority of an institution of higher education to acquire goods and services as provided by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 is suspended if the institution fails to comply with the remediation plan under Subsection (i) within the time established by the state auditor.  As a result of the suspension, the laws, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code, governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies from which the institution is otherwise exempt, shall apply to the institution's acquisition of goods and services.
Sec. 51.934.  ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, OR PLEDGE OF COMPENSATION.  (a)  In this section, "employee" means any person employed by an institution of higher education in an executive, administrative, or clerical capacity or as a professor or instructor or in any similar capacity.(b)  An employee's assignment, pledge, or transfer, as security for indebtedness, of any interest in or part of the employee's salary or wages then due or that may become due under an existing contract of employment is enforceable only:(1)  if, before or at the time of execution, delivery, or acceptance of an assignment, pledge, or transfer, written approval is obtained in accordance with the policy of the employing institution;  and(2)  to the extent that the indebtedness it secures is a valid and enforceable obligation.(c)  An institution of higher education shall honor an assignment, pledge, or transfer fulfilling the conditions of Subsection (b) without incurring any liability to the employee executing the assignment, pledge, or transfer.  Payment to any assignee, pledgee, or transferee in accordance with the terms of the instrument is payment to or for the account of the assignor, pledgor, or transferor.  An assignment, pledge, or transfer is enforceable only to the extent of salary due or that may become due during continuation of the assignor's employment as an employee of the institution.(d)  Venue for any suit against the employer of an employee to enforce an assignment, pledge, or transfer of salary is in the county where the employing institution is located.
Sec. 51.9355.  ASSISTANCE RELATING TO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS, FINANCIAL AID, AND TESTING.  (a)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution shall establish an office at the institution to assist applicants, potential applicants, school counselors at the high school level, and other interested persons requesting assistance relating to:(1)  applying for admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution;(2)  applying for financial aid offered by or through the institution or by an office or agency of this state or the United States for attendance as an undergraduate student at the institution;(3)  registering for an examination to be taken in connection with admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution; or(4)  registering for an examination that may be taken to receive undergraduate course credit at the institution or to determine the skill or placement level of an applicant to or student enrolled in a bachelor's degree program at the institution.(b)  The office may be operated in connection with the admissions office or another existing office of the institution.(c)  This section does not require an institution to assist a person in preparing to take an examination.(d)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9356.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS WHO ARE OR WERE IN FOSTER CARE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003. (b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who are or were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.  To the extent allowed by state or federal law, the institution shall identify those students from information provided to the institution in admission or financial aid applications or other available resources.(c)  Each semester or other academic term, an institution of higher education shall provide to the institution's liaison officer the names of and information regarding the students described by Subsection (b).(d)  The liaison officer shall provide to the students described by Subsection (b) information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution and any other relevant information to assist the students.(e)  The liaison officer may participate in any training that enables the officer to carry out the officer's duties and coordinate with liaison officers at other educational institutions.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall publicize, including through the institution's Internet website, social media, electronic mail, or other means of communication used by the institution:(1)  the name of and contact information for the institution's liaison officer; and(2)  information regarding support services and other resources available at the institution to the students described by Subsection (b).
Sec. 51.9357.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST CERTAIN STUDENTS WHO ARE PARENTS; REPORT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age.  The liaison officer shall provide to the students information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  parenting and child care resources;(3)  employment assistance;(4)  transportation assistance;(5)  student academic success strategies; and(6)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  Not later than May 1 of each academic year, an institution of higher education shall submit to the coordinating board a report that contains the following information regarding students enrolled at the institution for the current academic year who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age:(1)  the number of those students;(2)  demographic data, including age, race, sex, and ethnicity;(3)  academic data, including full-time or part-time enrollment status and graduation, transfer, and withdrawal rates; and(4)  other data as prescribed by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section, including rules to ensure compliance with federal law regarding confidentiality of student medical or educational information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.), the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.
Sec. 51.9358.  DESIGNATION OF SUPPORT SERVICES LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution. The liaison officer shall provide to the students comprehensive information regarding support services and other resources available to the students, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  public benefit program case management assistance and counseling;(3)  parenting and child care resources;(4)  employment assistance;(5)  financial counseling and tax preparation assistance;(6)  transportation assistance;(7)  student academic success strategies; and(8)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  An institution of higher education may designate under Subsection (b) the same employee to act as liaison officer as the employee designated under Section 51.9356 to act as liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.
Sec. 51.936.  HAZING.  (a)  Subchapter F, Chapter 37, applies to a postsecondary educational institution under this section in the same manner as that subchapter applies to a public or private high school.(b)  For purposes of this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means:(1)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003;(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(3)  a private postsecondary educational institution as defined by Section 61.302.(c)  Not later than the 14th day before the first class day of each fall or spring semester, each postsecondary educational institution shall distribute to each student enrolled at the institution:(1)  a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37; and(2)  a copy of, or an electronic link to a copy of, the report required under Subsection (c-1).(c-1)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and post in a prominent location on the institution's Internet website a report on hazing committed on or off campus by an organization registered with or recognized by the institution.  The report:(1)  must include information regarding each disciplinary action taken by the institution against an organization for hazing, and each conviction of hazing under Section 37.153 by an organization, during the three years preceding the date on which the report is issued or updated, including:(A)  the name of the organization disciplined or convicted;(B)  the date on which the incident occurred or the citation was issued, if applicable;(C)  the date on which the institution's investigation into the incident, if any, was initiated;(D)  a general description of:(i)  the incident;(ii)  the violations of the institution's code of conduct or the criminal charges, as applicable;(iii)  the findings of the institution or court; and(iv)  any sanctions imposed by the institution, or any fines imposed by the court, on the organization; and(E)  the date on which the institution's disciplinary process was resolved or on which the conviction became final;(2)  must be updated to include information regarding each disciplinary process or conviction not later than the 30th day after the date on which the disciplinary process is resolved or the conviction becomes final, as applicable; and(3)  may not include personally identifiable student information and must comply with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g).(c-2)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall provide to each student who attends the institution's student orientation a notice regarding the nature and availability of the report required under Subsection (c-1), including the report's Internet website address.(d)  If the institution publishes a general catalogue, student handbook, or similar publication, it shall publish a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37, in each edition of the publication.(e)  Section 1.001(a) does not limit the application of this section to postsecondary educational institutions supported in whole or in part by state tax funds.
Sec. 51.9361.  RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS FOR MEMBERS AND ADVISORS OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advisor" means a person who:(A)  serves in an advisory capacity to a student organization to provide guidance to the organization and its members;(B)  is older than 21 years of age; and(C)  is not a student of the postsecondary educational institution at which the student organization is registered.(2)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include a medical and dental unit or other agency of higher education as those terms are defined by that section; and(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include:(i)  a health-related institution; or(ii)  an institution that offers only upper-division, graduate-level, or professional courses.(b)  This section applies only to a student organization that is registered at a postsecondary educational institution and that is composed mostly of students enrolled at the institution.  Notwithstanding Section 1.001(a), this section applies to each postsecondary educational institution at which is registered one or more student organizations.(c)  At least once during each academic year, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide a risk management program for members of student organizations registered at the institution.  Any member of a student organization who is not otherwise required to attend may attend the program.(d)  Unless a postsecondary educational institution requires each student organization registered at the institution to have representatives of the organization attend a program under this section, the institution shall adopt a policy that specifies one or more of those student organizations or types of student organizations that are required to have representatives attend.  The selection of student organizations or types of student organizations under the policy must be based on the institution's determination that those organizations or types of organizations could particularly benefit from risk management guidance.  Each advisor who has not previously attended a program under this section and each person serving in a designated officer position of a student organization that is required to have representatives attend a program under this section shall attend the program.  An institution may allow an advisor, other than a faculty or staff member of the institution, to satisfy the attendance requirements prescribed by this subsection through completion of an appropriate computer-based risk assessment program.(e)  For purposes of Subsection (d), the institution may designate not more than four officer positions of a student organization, such as the president, membership chair, risk management chair, social chair, or pledge class or new member chair.  If a student organization does not have an officer position described by this subsection or if an officer position described by Subsection (d) is vacant, the institution shall, to the extent practicable, identify and designate an equivalent officer position, and the person serving in that officer position shall attend the program.(f)  Each advisor or officer required by Subsection (d) to attend a program shall report on the program's contents at a meeting of the full membership of the student organization the advisor or officer represented at the program.(g)  A program under this section may address any issue determined appropriate by the postsecondary educational institution and must address:(1)  possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs, including penalties that may be imposed for possession or use;(2)  hazing;(3)  sexual abuse and harassment;(4)  fire and other safety issues, including the possession and use of a firearm or other weapon or of an explosive device;(5)  travel to a destination outside the area in which the institution is located;(6)  behavior at parties and other events held by a student organization;(7)  adoption by a student organization of a risk management policy; and(8)  issues regarding persons with disabilities, including a review of applicable requirements of federal and state law, and any related policies of the institution, for providing reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of students with disabilities, including access to the activities of the student organization.(h)  A postsecondary educational institution shall provide notice of a program under this section to student organizations in the manner determined by the institution.(i)  A postsecondary educational institution shall take attendance at a program provided under this section in the manner determined appropriate by the institution and may, as provided by a policy adopted by the institution, impose reasonable sanctions on a person who is required to attend the program and fails to attend.  The institution shall, until at least the third anniversary of the date of the program, maintain in an appropriate location at the institution a record of that attendance and of notice provided under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.9362.  OVERDOSE AWARENESS TRAINING FOR RESIDENTIAL ADVISORS AND STUDENT ORGANIZATION OFFICERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Public or private institution of higher education" includes an "institution of higher education" and a "private or independent institution of higher education," as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(2)  "Residential advisor" means a student who is employed by a public or private institution of higher education to serve in an advisory capacity for students living in a residential facility.(3)  "Residential facility" means a residence used exclusively for housing or boarding students or faculty of a public or private institution of higher education.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at a public or private institution of higher education and that:(A)  is registered with the institution;(B)  receives student organization resource fee revenues or other funding from the institution; or(C)  is otherwise recognized as a student organization by the institution.(b)  A public or private institution of higher education that imposes any mandatory training requirements on residential advisors or officers of student organizations must ensure that overdose awareness and appropriate response training is included with that training.
Sec. 51.9364.  CERTAIN NOTATIONS REQUIRED ON STUDENT TRANSCRIPTS.  (a)  In this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  If a student is ineligible to reenroll in a postsecondary educational institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript a notation stating that the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.(c)  If a student withdraws from a postsecondary educational institution pending disciplinary charges that may result in the student becoming ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution may not end the disciplinary process until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility, including, if applicable, a determination of whether the student will be ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.  If, as a result of the disciplinary process, the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript the notation required under Subsection (b).(d)  On request by the student, a postsecondary educational institution may remove from a student's transcript a notation required under this section if:(1)  the student is eligible to reenroll in the institution; or(2)  the institution determines that good cause exists to remove the notation.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.937.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY FOR VOLUNTEERS.  (a)  A volunteer who is serving as a direct service volunteer for an institution of higher education is immune from civil liability for any act that:(1)  is incident to or within the scope of the duties of the volunteer's position;  and(2)  involves the exercise of judgment or discretion on the part of the volunteer.(b)  This section does not apply to the operation, use, or maintenance of a motor vehicle.(c)  This section does not limit the liability of a person for intentional misconduct or gross negligence.(d)  In this section, "volunteer" means a person providing services for or on behalf of an institution of higher education, on the premises of the institution or at an activity related to or sponsored by the institution on or off of the property of the institution, who does not receive compensation in excess of reimbursement for expenses.
Sec. 51.940.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program must allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.  The institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee sufficient to cover the cost of implementation and administration of this program.(d)  An institution of higher education may not administer or sponsor a debit card program for students of the institution that does not conform to this section.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.942.  FACULTY TENURE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Institution of higher education" means a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(3)  "Neglect of duty" means continuing or repeated substantial neglect of professional responsibilities.(4)  "Tenure" means the entitlement of a faculty member of an institution of higher education to continue in the faculty member's academic position unless dismissed by the institution for good cause in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the institution under Subsection (c-1). (b)  Only an institution of higher education's governing board, on the recommendation of the institution's chief executive officer and the university system's chancellor, if applicable, may grant tenure.(c)  The granting of tenure may not be construed to create a property interest in any attribute of a faculty position beyond a faculty member's continuing employment, including his or her regular annual salary and any privileges incident to his or her status as a tenured professor.(c-1)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt policies and procedures regarding tenure.  The policies and procedures must:(1)  address the granting of tenure;(2)  allow for the dismissal of a tenured faculty member at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process, on a determination that:(A)  the faculty member has:(i)  exhibited professional incompetence;(ii)  continually or repeatedly failed to perform duties or meet professional responsibilities of the faculty member's position;(iii)  failed to successfully complete any post-tenure review professional development program;(iv)  engaged in conduct involving moral turpitude that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities;(v)  violated laws or university system or institution policies substantially related to the performance of the faculty member's duties;(vi)  been convicted of a crime affecting the fitness of the faculty member to engage in teaching, research, service, outreach, or administration;(vii)  engaged in unprofessional conduct that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities; or(viii)  falsified the faculty member's academic credentials;(B)  there is actual financial exigency or the phasing out of the institution's programs requiring elimination of the faculty member's position; or(C)  there is other good cause as defined in the institution's policies; and(3)  provide for a periodic performance evaluation process for all tenured faculty at the institution.(c-2)  The governing board may design its policies and procedures to fit the institution's particular educational mission, traditions, resources, and circumstances relevant to the institution's character, role, and scope, in addition to other relevant factors determined by the governing board in the policies and procedures adopted under this section.  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the institution's faculty before adopting any policies and procedures under this section.  The advice and comment from the faculty on the performance evaluation of tenured faculty shall be given the utmost consideration by the governing board.(c-3)  In addition to any other provisions adopted by the governing board, the policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) must include provisions providing that:(1)  each tenured faculty member at the institution be subject to a comprehensive performance evaluation process conducted no more often than once every year, but no less often than once every six years, after the date the faculty member was granted tenure or received an academic promotion at the institution;(2)  the comprehensive performance evaluation be based on the professional responsibilities of the faculty member, in teaching, research, service, patient care, and administration, and include peer review of the faculty member;(3)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process be directed toward the professional development of the faculty member;(4)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process incorporate commonly recognized academic due process rights, including notice of the manner and scope of the comprehensive performance evaluation, the opportunity to provide documentation during the comprehensive performance evaluation process, and, before a faculty member may be subject to disciplinary action on the basis of a comprehensive performance evaluation conducted under this subsection, notice of specific charges and an opportunity for hearing on those charges;(5)  a faculty member be subject to revocation of tenure or other appropriate disciplinary action if, during the comprehensive performance evaluation, incompetency, neglect of duty, or other good cause is determined to be present; and(6)  for a faculty member who receives an unsatisfactory rating in any area of any evaluation conducted under this section, the evaluation process provide for a short-term development plan that includes performance benchmarks for returning to satisfactory performance.(c-4)  The policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) may include provisions that authorize the summary dismissal of a tenured faculty member based on a finding that the faculty member committed serious misconduct, as defined by the institution's policies, at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process in accordance with this subsection.  The policies and procedures for summary dismissal must ensure that the institution provides the faculty member with appropriate due process, including:(1)  before summarily dismissing the faculty member, providing the faculty member:(A)  written notice of the allegations against the faculty member together with an explanation of the evidence supporting dismissal; and(B)  an opportunity for the faculty member to respond to the allegations in a hearing with a designated administrator;(2)  requiring the designated administrator to consider the faculty member's response under Subdivision (1)(B) and make a written determination of whether the institution will proceed with the summary dismissal of the faculty member;(3)  promptly providing to the faculty member a copy of the designated administrator's written determination under Subdivision (2) that:(A)  clearly indicates whether the faculty member will be subject to summary dismissal; and(B)  either:(i)  includes the effective date of the dismissal and information regarding the faculty member's opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal, if the designated administrator's decision is in favor of summary dismissal; or(ii)  states that the faculty member is not subject to summary dismissal, if the designated administrator's decision is against summary dismissal; and(4)  following a designated administrator's written determination to summarily dismiss a faculty member, providing the faculty member with the opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal in accordance with the institution's policies and procedures.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 923 (S.B. 18), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2023.(e)  A governing board may not waive the evaluation process for any faculty member granted tenure at an institution.(f)  A governing board may not award tenure to an administrator in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(g)  Each governing board shall file a copy of the policies and procedures adopted under this section, and any amendments to such polices and procedures, with the coordinating board on or before September 1 of each year.
Sec. 51.943.  RENEWAL OF FACULTY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Contract" means an agreement between an institution of higher education or its authorized agent and a faculty member that establishes the terms of the faculty member's employment, including the faculty member's responsibilities and salary, for an academic year.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed full time by an institution of higher education as a member of the faculty whose primary duties include teaching or research.  The term does not include:(A)  a person employed in the classified personnel system of the institution or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system;(B)  a person who holds faculty rank but who spends a majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (c), an institution of higher education that determines it is in its best interest to reappoint a faculty member for the next academic year shall offer the faculty member a written contract for that academic year not later than 30 days before the first day of the academic year.(c)  For the purposes of this section, an institution of higher education is not required to provide an annual contract to tenure or tenure-track faculty, but must provide tenure and tenure-track faculty with any written notification required in the institution's tenure policy of a change in a term of employment according to the policies of the institution, but no later than the 30th day prior to the change.(d)  If the institution of higher education is unable to comply with Subsection (b), the institution shall:(1)  provide the faculty member with written notification that the institution is unable to comply with Subsection (b);(2)  include in the written notification reasons for its inability to comply with Subsection (b);  and(3)  specify in the written notification a time by which it will offer a written contract to the faculty member for the applicable academic year.(e)  If the institution does not offer the faculty member a written contract before the 61st day after the first day of the academic year and the institution retains the faculty member for that academic year without a written contract, the institution must retain the faculty member for that academic year under terms and conditions, including terms governing the faculty member's compensation, that are at least as favorable to the faculty member's employment for the preceding academic year, unless the institution and the faculty member subsequently enter into a different written contract.(f)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from entering into a contract with a faculty member for a period longer than an academic year.(g)  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to provide a faculty member who does not hold tenure additional rights, privileges, or remedies or to provide an expectation of continued employment beyond the period of a faculty member's current contract.
Sec. 51.945.  STUDENT PARTICIPATION IN SELECTION OF FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall develop and implement policies that provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to appear before any committee or other entity that is determining whether a food service provider should be selected or retained by the institution.  The policies shall provide the students with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of a food service provider and the students' recommendations for qualifications of food service providers.(b)  A contract between an institution of higher education and a food service provider must require the food service provider to periodically hold meetings or forums to provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of the food service provider.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Food service provider" means a person who contracts with the institution to provide food or beverage service at any location on the premises of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.946.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The governing board of a private or independent institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program may allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.(d)  The private or independent institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee for the implementation and administration of the program.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.9461.  CHARGES AND FEES FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a payment of tuition, a fee, or another charge made by or on behalf of a student, including a person admitted but not yet enrolled, of a private or independent institution of higher education if the payment is made or authorized in person, by mail, by telephone call, or through the Internet by means of:(1)  an electronic funds transfer; or(2)  a credit card.(c)  A private or independent institution of higher education may charge a fee or other amount in connection with a payment to which this section applies, in addition to the amount of the tuition, fee, or other charge being paid, including:(1)  a discount, convenience, or service charge for the transaction; or(2)  a service charge in connection with a payment transaction that is dishonored or refused for lack of funds or insufficient funds.(d)  A fee or other charge under this section must be in an amount reasonable and necessary to reimburse the institution for the expense incurred by the institution in processing and handling the payment or payment transaction.(e)  Before accepting a payment by credit card, the institution shall notify the student or other person making the payment of any fee to be charged under this section.
Sec. 51.947.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  An employee of an institution of higher education may authorize a deduction each pay period from the employee's salary or wage payment for:(1)  a contribution to an institution of higher education;  or(2)  a charitable contribution to a nonprofit organization the purpose of which is to support the programs of an institution of higher education.(b)  To be eligible to receive charitable contributions under this section, a nonprofit organization must comply with the rules adopted under Section 2255.001, Government Code, by the institution of higher education the organization supports.(c)  An institution of higher education shall establish procedures to enable an employee of the institution to authorize a deduction under this section.(d)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.948.  RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACTS WITH ADMINISTRATORS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an employment contract with an administrator that is to be paid in whole or in part from appropriated funds only if, before the date the contract is executed, the governing board determines that the contract is in the best interest of the institution.(b)  A contract entered into by a governing board under this section may not:(1)  provide for employment for more than three years;(2)  allow for severance or other payments on the termination of the contract to exceed an amount equal to the discounted net present cash value of the contract on termination at a market interest rate agreed upon in the contract;(3)  allow for development leave that is inconsistent with Section 51.105;  or(4)  award tenure in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(c)  An institution of higher education may not pay a salary to a person who is reassigned from an administrative position to a faculty or other position at the institution that exceeds the salary of other persons with similar qualifications performing similar duties.(d)  An institution of higher education must require an administrator who receives development leave to:(1)  return to work at the institution for an amount of time equal to the amount of time the administrator received development leave;  or(2)  repay the institution for all the costs of the development leave, including the amount of the administrator's salary, if any, paid during the leave.(e)  A record that pertains to a contract between an institution and an administrator, including terms relating to an amount of money the institution has paid or agreed to pay or the extension of any monetary or other consideration to an administrator in connection with the settlement, compromise, or other resolution of any difference between the institution or governing body and a current or former administrator, is public information and may not be withheld from public disclosure.(f)  Notwithstanding Subsection (b)(3), the governing board of an institution may grant development leave at the faculty member's full regular salary for one year to a faculty member who has held an administrative position at the institution for more than four years.(g)  In this section:(1)  "Administrator" means a person who has significant administrative duties relating to the operation of the institution, including the operation of a department, college, program, or other subdivision of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Contract" includes a letter of agreement or letter of understanding.
Sec. 51.950.  POLICY REGULATING STUDENT TRAVEL.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt a policy regulating travel that is undertaken by one or more students presently enrolled at the institution to reach an activity or event that is located more than 25 miles from the institution that is organized and sponsored by the institution and that is:(1)  funded by the institution, and the travel is undertaken using a vehicle owned or leased by the institution;  or(2)  required by a student organization registered at the institution.(c)  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the faculty and students of the institution before adopting any policy under this section.(d)  The policy must contain provisions that address:(1)  different modes of travel likely to be used by students;  and(2)  safety issues related to student travel, including:(A)  use of seat belts or other safety devices;(B)  passenger capacity;  and(C)  for the person providing transportation services:(i)  qualifications and training required to operate that particular mode of travel;  and(ii)  fatigue at the time of travel.(e)  The governing board shall make the policy available to the public by publishing the policy in the institution's catalog and by any other method the board considers appropriate.(f)  The governing board shall file a copy of the policy adopted under this section, and any amendments to that policy, with the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(g)  This section does not create a claim or cause of action against an institution of higher education beyond a claim or cause of action authorized on the effective date of the Act that enacted this section by Chapter 101, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
Sec. 51.951.  CONFIDENTIALITY OF CERTAIN INFORMATION RELATED TO PURCHASE OR SALE OF REAL ESTATE.  (a)  Information related to the location, purchase price, or sale price of real property purchased or sold by or for an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, is confidential and exempt from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, until a deed for the property is executed.  Information that is confidential and exempted from disclosure under this subsection includes an appraisal, completed report, evaluation, investigation conducted for the purpose of locating or determining the purchase or sale price of the property, or any report prepared in anticipation of purchasing or selling real property.(b)  Information that is confidential and excluded from disclosure under Subsection (a) is not subject to a subpoena directed to an institution of higher education, its governing board, or any officer, agent, or employee of an institution of higher education.
Sec. 51.952.  STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE.  (a)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may require a student enrolled at a medical and dental unit to have in effect during the calendar year of enrollment a health insurance policy for health care services received by the student.(b)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit shall determine the minimum coverage standards for health insurance required under this section.(c)  If the student agrees in writing, the medical and dental unit shall provide a reasonable estimate of the cost of the health insurance coverage within the student's cost of education for financial aid purposes.(d)  If a governing board of a medical and dental unit requires health insurance coverage for students under Subsection (a), a student may be provisionally enrolled at the medical and dental unit for one academic session without the coverage in order to allow the student time to obtain the coverage.(e)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may adopt such other rules and regulations as it determines necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.(f)  In this section, "governing board" and "medical and dental unit" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.953.  CERTAIN REVENUE RECEIVED FROM STUDENT HEALTH CENTER SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health benefit plan" means any health benefit plan regulated under the Insurance Code, including:(A)  an individual or group health insurance policy; or(B)  an evidence of coverage issued by a health maintenance organization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Amounts received by an institution of higher education from a health benefit plan issuer as a result of a claim filed with the issuer by or on behalf of the institution's student health center are institutional funds under Section 51.009 and may be used only for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of the student health center or to increase or enhance the services offered by the student health center.  It is the intent of the legislature that those amounts be in addition to other amounts of money allocated to the student health center and those other amounts not be reduced.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF CONTRACTED RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with, or that is conducted under a grant awarded by and pursuant to a written agreement with, an individual or entity other than the institution conducting the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with or a grant from an individual or entity, other than the institution conducting the research, for the purpose of the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Sec. 51.955.  PROHIBITED STATE AGENCY ACTIONS RELATED TO DISCLOSURE OF PUBLICLY FUNDED RESEARCH.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A state agency that expends appropriated funds may not:(1)  enter into a research contract with an institution of higher education if that contract contains a provision precluding public disclosure of any final data generated or produced in the course of executing the contract unless the agency reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party; or(2)  adopt a rule that is based on research conducted under a contract entered into with an institution of higher education unless the agency:(A)  has made the results of the research and all data supporting the research publicly available; or(B)  reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party.(c)  Subsection (b)(1) does not apply to a research contract between an institution of higher education and the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas.(d)  A response to a request for information regarding research described by Subsection (b) must be made in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.(e)  This section does not require the public disclosure of personal identifying information or any other information the disclosure of which is otherwise prohibited by law.
Sec. 51.956.  POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR RESEARCH SECURITY.  (a)  In this section, "governing board," "institution of higher education," and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a policy framework that promotes secure academic research at the institution while mitigating the risk of foreign espionage and interference. The governing board of a university system must establish a separate policy framework for each institution of higher education under the governing board's management and control.(c)  The policy framework must address:(1)  achieving the highest level of compliance with applicable ethical, legal, regulatory, contractual, and system standards and requirements for securing and protecting the institution's research portfolios;(2)  promoting within the institution an organizational culture of compliance with federal requirements to ensure the institution maintains eligibility for federal funding; and(3)  designating a person to serve as a research security officer responsible for maintaining classified information, maintaining controlled unclassified information, conducting foreign influence reporting, and addressing other issues at the institution associated with the goals of the policy framework.(d)  For purposes of designating a person to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3), the governing board of a university system may designate a person to serve in an institutional or system-wide capacity.(e)  A person designated to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3) shall attend the annual academic security and counter exploitation program seminar offered by Texas A&M University.
Sec. 51.960.  GRIEVANCE RIGHTS ON CERTAIN PERSONNEL ISSUES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Faculty member" means a person employed full-time by an institution of higher education as a member of the institution's faculty, including professional librarians, whose duties include teaching, research, administration, or the performance of professional services.  The term does not include a person who holds faculty rank but who spends the majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A faculty member at an institution of higher education has a right to present a grievance, in person, to a member of the institution's administration designated by the governing board of the institution on an issue related to the nonrenewal or termination of the faculty member's employment at the institution.(c)  An institution may not, by contract, policy, or procedure, restrict a faculty member's right to present a grievance under this section.  An institution may adopt a method for presenting, reviewing, and acting on a grievance filed under this section.
Sec. 51.961.  LEAVE PROVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR COMPONENT INSTITUTION OF SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Leave" includes vacation leave, sick leave, and holidays.(b)  The governing board of a university system may adopt a comprehensive leave policy that applies to employees of the university system or any component institution of the system.(c)  A policy adopted under this section may combine vacation, sick, and holiday leave into a paid leave system that does not distinguish or separate the types of leave to be awarded and may award leave in an amount determined by the governing board to be appropriate and cost-effective.(d)  Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, do not apply to employees covered by a policy adopted under this section.  The policy must include provisions addressing the subject matter of each subchapter of Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, and the intended effect of the policy on the rights, duties, and responsibilities of employees and the employing entity under those subchapters.(e)  A policy adopted under this section must include provisions for:(1)  payment for accrued leave to:(A)  the estates or heirs of deceased employees;(B)  employees separating from the employing entity;  and(C)  contributing members of state retirement systems who retire;  and(2)  awards of accrued leave to employees separating from the employing entity who are to be employed by other state agencies or institutions of higher education.(f)  A policy authorized by this section may include other matters as determined relevant and appropriate by the governing board.(g)  A policy authorized by this section must be adopted by a governing board in an open meeting of the board.(h)  Before implementing a policy adopted under this section, the governing board shall make reasonable efforts to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the office of the state auditor, the Employees Retirement System of Texas, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board concerning awards of accrued leave for the purposes of retirement and other issues of concern related to the implementation of the policy.(i)  On or after September 15, 2005, the governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a leave policy as provided by this section for employees of the institution.
Sec. 51.9611.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a university system, or of an institution of higher education that is not a component institution of a university system, may authorize employees of the system or institution, as applicable, to elect a payroll deduction for any purpose that the governing board determines serves a public purpose and benefits employees.  The board may adopt policies and procedures governing payroll deductions under this section.  A payroll deduction under this section is in addition to payroll deductions authorized by other law.(c)  A payroll deduction under this section must be at the written request of the employee, and the request must state the amount to be deducted and the entity to which the deducted amount is to be transferred.  A payroll deduction is in effect until revoked in writing by the employee, but the policies and procedures of the university system or institution of higher education, as applicable, may provide for enrollment periods.(d)  A university system or institution of higher education may collect an administrative fee to cover the costs of making a deduction.(e)  This section does not authorize a payroll deduction for dues or membership fees payable to a labor union or employees association.
Sec. 51.962.  MERIT SALARY INCREASES.  (a)  An institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 may grant merit salary increases, including one-time merit payments, to employees described by this section.(b)  A merit salary increase made under this section is compensation for purposes of Chapter 659, Government Code, and salary and wages and member compensation for purposes of Title 8, Government Code.(c)  An institution of higher education may pay merit salary increases under this section from any funds.(d)  Before awarding a merit salary increase under this section, an institution of higher education must adopt criteria for the granting of merit salary increases.(e)  To be eligible for a merit salary increase under this section, an employee must have been employed by the institution of higher education for the six months immediately preceding the effective date of the increase and at least six months must have elapsed since the employee's last merit salary increase.(f)  This subsection applies to an employee employed by the institution of higher education for more than six months.  The requirement that six months elapse between merit salary increases prescribed by Subsection (e) does not apply to a one-time merit payment if the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education determines in writing that the one-time merit payment is made in relation to the employee's performance during a natural disaster or other extraordinary circumstance.
Sec. 51.9645.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN ACTIVITIES BY FINANCIAL AID EMPLOYEES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Student loan" means a loan for which the loan agreement requires that all or part of the loan proceeds be used to assist a person in attending an institution of higher education or other postsecondary institution.(3)  "Student loan lender" means a person whose primary business is:(A)  making, brokering, arranging, or accepting applications for student loans; or(B)  a combination of activities described by Paragraph (A).(b)  A person employed by an institution of higher education in the financial aid office of the institution may not:(1)  own stock or hold another ownership interest in a student loan lender, other than through ownership of shares in a publicly traded mutual fund or similar investment vehicle in which the person does not exercise any discretion regarding the investment of the assets of the fund or other investment vehicle; or(2)  solicit or accept any gift from a student loan lender.(c)  A person who violates this section is subject to dismissal or other appropriate disciplinary action.
Sec. 51.968.  UNDERGRADUATE COURSE CREDIT FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS COMPLETING POSTSECONDARY-LEVEL PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advanced Placement examination" means an examination administered through the Advanced Placement Program.(2)  "CLEP examination" means an examination administered through the College-Level Examination Program.(3)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, that offers freshman-level courses.(5)  "International Baccalaureate Diploma Program" means the curriculum and examinations leading to an International Baccalaureate diploma awarded by the International Baccalaureate Organization.(b)  Each institution of higher education that offers freshman-level courses shall adopt and implement a policy to grant undergraduate course credit to entering freshman students who have:(1)  successfully completed the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program;(2)  achieved required scores on one or more examinations in the Advanced Placement Program or the College-Level Examination Program; or(3)  successfully completed one or more dual credit courses.(c)  In the policy, the institution shall:(1)  establish the institution's conditions for granting course credit, including the minimum required scores on CLEP examinations, Advanced Placement examinations, and examinations for courses constituting the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program; and(2)  based on the correlations identified under Subsection (f), identify the specific course credit or other academic requirements of the institution, including the number of semester credit hours or other course credit, that the institution will grant to a student who:(A)  successfully completes the diploma program;(B)  achieves required scores on CLEP examinations or Advanced Placement examinations; or(C)  successfully completes a dual credit course.(c-1)  In establishing the minimum required score on an Advanced Placement examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score of more than three unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(c-2)  In establishing the minimum required score on a CLEP examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score higher than the minimum score recommended by the American Council on Education for granting course credit for that examination unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate that a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(d)  The policy adopted by an institution of higher education under Subsection (b) must provide that the institution may grant undergraduate course credit for a dual credit course only if the course is:(1)  in the core curriculum of the institution of higher education that offered the course;(2)  a career and technical education course; or(3)  a foreign language course.(d-1)  Subsection (d) does not apply to a dual credit course completed by a student as part of the early college education program established under Section 29.908 or any other early college program that assists a student in earning a certificate or an associate degree while in high school.(d-2)  The coordinating board, in coordination with the Texas Education Agency, shall adopt rules to implement Subsections (d) and (d-1).  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code, and consult with relevant stakeholders.(e)  On request of an applicant for admission as an entering freshman, an institution of higher education, based on information provided by the applicant, shall determine and notify the applicant regarding:(1)  the amount and type of any course credit that would be granted to the applicant under the policy; and(2)  any other academic requirement that the applicant would satisfy under the policy.(f)  The coordinating board, in consultation with the Texas Education Agency, shall:(1)  identify correlations between the subject matter and content of courses offered by each institution of higher education and the subject matter and content of courses and examinations in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program, the Advanced Placement Program, and the College-Level Examination Program; and(2)  make that information available to the public on the coordinating board's Internet website.(g)  Except as otherwise provided by this subsection, an institution of higher education shall grant at least 24 semester credit hours or equivalent course credit in appropriate subject areas to an entering freshman student for successful completion of the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program.  The institution may grant fewer than 24 semester credit hours if the student received a score of less than four on an examination administered as part of the diploma program.  The institution may grant fewer credit hours only with respect to courses that are substantially related to the subject of that examination.
Sec. 51.9685.  REQUIRED FILING OF DEGREE PLAN.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Degree plan" means a statement of the course of study requirements that an undergraduate student at an institution of higher education must complete in order to be awarded an associate or bachelor's degree from the institution.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as otherwise provided by Subsection (c), each student enrolled in an associate or bachelor's degree program at an institution of higher education shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of the semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 30 or more semester credit hours for coursework successfully completed by the student, including transfer courses, international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, and any other course for which the institution the student attends has awarded the student college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination.(c)  A student to whom Subsection (b) applies who begins the student's first semester or term at an institution of higher education with 30 or more semester credit hours of course credit for courses described by Subsection (b) shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of that semester or term.(c-1)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 12, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 9, eff. June 14, 2019. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a course for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008 at a public junior college and to whom Subsection (b) or (c-1) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the college not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the college with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the college. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a dual credit course at an institution of higher education and to whom Subsection (b) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the institution not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the institution with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the institution.(d)  An institution of higher education shall provide to students to whom this section applies information regarding the degree plan filing requirement under this section and options for consulting with an academic advisor for that purpose, which may include consultation through electronic communication.(e)  At each registration for a semester or term, a student who is required to have filed a degree plan under this section before that semester or term shall verify to the institution that:(1)  the student has filed a degree plan with the institution; and(2)  the courses for which the student is registering are consistent with that degree plan.(f)  If a student to whom this section applies does not timely file a degree plan, the institution of higher education in which the student is enrolled shall notify the student that the degree plan is required by law and require the student to consult with an academic advisor for that purpose in accordance with the consulting options under Subsection (d) during the semester or term in which the student receives the notice.  The student may not obtain an official transcript from the institution until the student has filed a degree plan with the institution. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules requiring institutions of higher education to report to the board information regarding the filing of degree plans as required by this section. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 3 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules to ensure compliance with this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96851.  LEARNING OUTCOMES FOR UNDERGRADUATE COURSES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To foster a transparent student learning environment at institutions of higher education and to facilitate the universal articulation of undergraduate courses that are transferable for credit among all institutions of higher education, each institution of higher education shall identify, adopt, and make available for public inspection measurable learning outcomes for each undergraduate course offered by the institution other than:(1)  a course with a highly variable subject content that is tailored specifically to an individual student, such as an independent study or directed reading course; or(2)  a laboratory, practicum, or discussion section that is an intrinsic and required component of a lecture course.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt learning outcomes for a course under this section that are the same as or based on those identified for that course by the institution's recognized accrediting agency.(d)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt any rules the coordinating board considers appropriate for the administration of this section.
Sec. 51.96852.  RECOMMENDED COURSE SEQUENCES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall develop at least one recommended course sequence for each undergraduate certificate or degree program offered by the institution.  Each recommended course sequence must:(1)  identify all required lower-division courses for the applicable certificate or degree program;(2)  include for each course, if applicable:(A)  the course number or course equivalent under the common course numbering system approved by the coordinating board under Section 61.832; and(B)  the course equivalent in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(3)  be designed to enable a full-time student to obtain a certificate or degree, as applicable, within:(A)  for a 60-hour degree or certificate program, two years; or(B)  for a 120-hour degree program, four years; and(4)  include a specific sequence in which courses should be completed to ensure completion of the applicable program within the time frame described by Subdivision (3).(c)  Each institution of higher education shall:(1)  include the recommended course sequences developed under this section in the institution's course catalog and on the institution's Internet website; and(2)  submit the recommended course sequences developed under this section to the coordinating board as provided by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96853.  TRANSFER OF CREDIT FROM LOWER-DIVISION INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION; ARTICULATION AGREEMENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Articulation agreement" means a formal written agreement between a lower-division institution of higher education and a general academic teaching institution identifying courses offered by the lower-division institution that must be accepted for credit toward specific course requirements at the general academic teaching institution.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Lower-division institution of higher education" means a public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution may enter into an articulation agreement with a lower-division institution of higher education for a certificate or degree program for which students transferring from the lower-division institution to the general academic teaching institution receive transfer credit.(c)  An articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) on or after September 1, 2019, may use field of study curricula developed by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board under Section 61.823.(d)  A general academic teaching institution may extend an existing articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) to another lower-division institution of higher education with respect to the transfer of courses from that lower-division institution of higher education to the general academic teaching institution, on request by that lower-division institution of higher education.(e)  An articulation agreement established under this section may enable a transfer student to receive up to 60 semester credit hours for courses completed at the lower-division institution of higher education.(f)  A general academic teaching institution's participation in an articulation agreement under this section does not affect the institution's admissions policies.
Sec. 51.969.  ELIGIBILITY FOR SCHOLARSHIP; STATEMENT REQUIRED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person is not eligible to receive a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system if the person is related to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system, unless:(1)  the scholarship is granted by a private organization or third party not affiliated with the institution of higher education or university system;(2)  the scholarship is awarded exclusively on the basis of prior academic merit;(3)  the scholarship is an athletic scholarship; or(4)  the relationship is not within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity, as determined under Subchapter B, Chapter 573, Government Code.(c)  Before receiving a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system, a person must file a written statement with the institution or system indicating whether the person is related within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education and university system of the required statement and applicable rules.(e)  A person commits an offense if the person knowingly files a false statement under Subsection (c).(f)  An offense under Subsection (e) is a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.970.  INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL FOR BLIND AND VISUALLY IMPAIRED STUDENTS AND STUDENTS WITH DYSLEXIA.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Blind or visually impaired student" includes any student whose visual acuity is impaired to the extent that the student is unable to read the print in the standard instructional material used in a course in which the student is enrolled.(2)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(3)  "Dyslexia" means a condition of dyslexia considered to be a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. Section 12101 et seq.) or  Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. Section 794).(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Instructional material" means a printed textbook or other printed instructional material or a combination of a printed book and supplementary printed instructional material that:(A)  conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a student; and(B)  was published on or after January 1, 2004.(6)  "Special instructional material" means instructional material in Braille, large print, audio format, digital text, or any other medium or any apparatus that conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a blind or visually impaired student or a student with dyslexia.(b)  This section applies only to instructional material that is:(1)  written and published primarily for postsecondary instruction of students; and(2)  required or essential for a student's success in a course at an institution of higher education, as identified by the instructor of the course for which the instructional material will be used, in consultation with the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities and in accordance with rules adopted under Subsection (i)(1).(c)  To assist the institution in producing special instructional material, a publisher or manufacturer of instructional material assigned by an institution of higher education for use by students in connection with a course at the institution shall provide to the institution on the institution's request in accordance with this section a copy in an electronic format of the instructional material. The publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy not later than the 15th business day after the date of receipt of the request.(d)  A request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) must:(1)  certify that for each blind or visually impaired student or student with dyslexia who will use specialized instructional material based on the requested copy of the material in an electronic format for a course in which the student is enrolled at the institution, either the institution or the student has purchased a printed copy of the instructional material; and(2)  be signed by the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities.(e)  A publisher or manufacturer may require that a request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) include from each student for whom the institution is making the request a signed statement in which the student agrees:(1)  to use the requested electronic copy and related special instructional material only for the student's own educational purposes; and(2)  not to copy or otherwise distribute in a manner that violates 17 U.S.C.  Section 101 et seq. the requested electronic copy or the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based.(f)  Each electronic copy of instructional material must:(1)  be in a format that:(A)  except as provided by Subsection (g), contains all of the information that is in the instructional material, including any text, sidebar, table of contents, chapter headings, chapter subheadings, footnotes, index, glossary, and bibliography, and is approved by the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, and the institution of higher education as a format that will contain that material; and(B)  is compatible with commonly used Braille translation and speech synthesis software; and(2)  include any correction or revision available at the time the electronic copy is provided.(g)  If the publisher or manufacturer and the institution of higher education are not able to agree on a format as required by Subsection (f)(1)(A), the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy of the instructional material in a format that can be read by a word processing application and that contains as much of the material specified by that subsection as is practicable.(h)  The coordinating board may impose a reasonable administrative penalty, not to exceed $250 per violation, against a publisher or manufacturer that knowingly violates this section.  The coordinating board shall provide for a hearing to be held, in accordance with coordinating board rule, to determine whether a penalty is to be imposed and the amount of any penalty.  The coordinating board shall base the amount of any penalty on:(1)  the seriousness of the violation;(2)  any history of a previous violation;(3)  the amount necessary to deter a future violation;(4)  any effort to correct the violation;  and(5)  any other matter justice requires.(i)  The coordinating board, in consultation with an advocacy organization for persons who are blind or visually impaired, an advocacy organization for persons with dyslexia, representatives from one or more instructional material publishing companies or publishing associations, and institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for administering this section, including rules that address:(1)  the method for identifying instructional material considered to be required or essential for a student's success in a course;(2)  the procedures and standards relating to distribution of electronic copies of instructional material under this section; and(3)  any other matter considered necessary or appropriate for the administration of this section.(j)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a publisher or manufacturer is not required to comply with Subsection (c) or (f), as applicable, if the coordinating board, using procedures and criteria adopted by coordinating board rule and based on information provided by the publisher or manufacturer, determines that:(1)  compliance by the manufacturer or publisher would violate a law, rule, or regulation relating to copyrights; or(2)  the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based is:(A)  out of print; or(B)  in a format that makes it impracticable to convert the material into an electronic format.
Sec. 51.9705.  NOTICE REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF TEXTBOOKS THROUGH MULTIPLE RETAILERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "University-affiliated bookstore" means a bookstore that:(A)  sells textbooks for courses offered by an institution of higher education, regardless of whether the bookstore is located on the campus of the institution; and(B)  is operated by or with the approval of the institution through ownership, a management agreement, a lease or rental agreement, or otherwise.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide to each student enrolled at the institution written notice regarding the availability of required or recommended textbooks through university-affiliated bookstores and through retailers other than university-affiliated bookstores.  The procedures must require the institution to provide the notice:(1)  to each student of the institution during the week preceding each fall and spring semester;(2)  to each student enrolled at the institution in a semester or summer term during the first three weeks of the semester or the first week of the summer term, as applicable; and(3)  to students or prospective students of the institution attending an orientation conducted by or for the institution.(c)  The notice shall be provided in a hard-copy or electronic format in a manner that ensures that the notice is reasonably likely to come to the attention of a student receiving the notice.  The notice must contain the following:"A student of this institution is not under any obligation to purchase a textbook from a university-affiliated bookstore.  The same textbook may also be available from an independent retailer, including an online retailer."(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section.
Sec. 51.971.  COMPLIANCE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Compliance program" means a process to assess and ensure compliance by the officers, employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, or other persons acting on behalf of an institution of higher education with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policies, including matters of:(A)  ethics and standards of conduct;(B)  financial reporting;(C)  internal accounting controls; or(D)  auditing.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education that maintains a compliance program may establish procedures, such as a telephone hotline, to permit private access to the compliance program office and to preserve the confidentiality of communications and the anonymity of a person making a compliance report or participating in a compliance investigation.(c)  The following are confidential:(1)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual who made a report to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education, sought guidance from the office, or participated in an investigation conducted under the compliance program; and(2)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual as a person who is alleged to have or may have planned, initiated, or participated in activities that are the subject of a report made to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education if, after completing an investigation, the office determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(d)  Subsection (c) does not apply to information related to an individual who consents to disclosure of the information.(e)  Information is excepted from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, if it is collected or produced:(1)  in a compliance program investigation and releasing the information would interfere with an ongoing compliance investigation; or(2)  by a systemwide compliance office for the purpose of reviewing compliance processes at a component institution of higher education of a university system.(f)  Information made confidential or excepted from public disclosure by this section may be made available to the following on request in compliance with applicable law and procedure:(1)  a law enforcement agency or prosecutor;(2)  a governmental agency responsible for investigating the matter that is the subject of a compliance report, including the Texas Workforce Commission civil rights division or the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; or(3)  an officer or employee of an institution of higher education or a compliance officer or employee of a university system administration who is responsible under institutional or system policy for a compliance program investigation or for reviewing a compliance program investigation.(g)  A disclosure under Subsection (f) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.
Sec. 51.9715.  RELEASE OF STUDENT ACADEMIC INFORMATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may request the submission of a signed consent form authorizing the institution to release academic course, grade, and credit information with each:(1)  application for undergraduate transfer admission to the institution, if the institution is a general academic teaching institution, to be used for the purposes of Section 61.833; or(2)  request from a student for a release of the student's transcript by the institution.(a-1)  An institution of higher education, or a school district that offers international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, or any other course for which an institution of higher education may award students enrolled at the district college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination, may release student information to an institution of higher education for purposes of transferring course credit to that institution or enabling the awarding of course credit by that institution, in accordance with federal law regarding the confidentiality of student information, including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.(b)  An institution of higher education or school district may release student information in accordance with Subsection (a) or (a-1), as applicable, through:(1)  the National Student Clearinghouse; or(2)  a similar electronic data sharing and exchange platform operated by an agent of the institution or district that meets nationally accepted standards, conventions, and practices.
Sec. 51.974.  INTERNET ACCESS TO COURSE INFORMATION.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, other than a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for each undergraduate classroom course offered for credit by the institution:(1)  a syllabus that:(A)  satisfies any standards adopted by the institution;(B)  provides a brief description of each major course requirement, including each major assignment and examination;(C)  lists any required or recommended reading; and(D)  provides a general description of the subject matter of each lecture or discussion;(2)  a curriculum vitae of each regular instructor that lists the instructor's:(A)  postsecondary education;(B)  teaching experience; and(C)  significant professional publications; and(3)  if available, a departmental budget report of the department under which the course is offered, from the most recent semester or other academic term during which the institution offered the course.(a-1)  A curriculum vitae made available on the institution's Internet website under Subsection (a) may not include any personal information, including the instructor's home address or home telephone number.(b)  The information required by Subsection (a) must be:(1)  accessible from the institution's Internet website home page by use of not more than three links;(2)  searchable by keywords and phrases; and(3)  accessible to the public without requiring registration or use of a user name, a password, or another user identification.(c)  The institution shall make the information required by Subsection (a) available not later than the seventh day after the first day of classes for the semester or other academic term during which the course is offered.  The institution shall continue to make the information available on the institution's Internet website until at least the second anniversary of the date on which the institution initially posted the information.(d)  The institution shall update the information required by Subsection (a) as soon as practicable after the information changes.(e)  The governing body of the institution shall designate an administrator to be responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(f)  Not later than January 1 of each odd-numbered year, each institution of higher education shall submit a written report regarding the institution's compliance with this section to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the presiding officer of each legislative standing committee with primary jurisdiction over higher education.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section.(h)  Institutions of higher education included in this section shall conduct end-of-course student evaluations of faculty and develop a plan to make evaluations available on the institution's website.
Sec. 51.9741.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, shall post on the institution's Internet website a copy of the institution's financial transactions to the extent necessary to provide, for each payment drawn from money appropriated from the state general revenue fund or received as student tuition or fee payments:(1)  the amount of the payment;(2)  the date of the payment;(3)  a brief description of the purpose of the payment; and(4)  the name of the payee.(b)  An institution of higher education may comply with this section by providing on the institution's Internet website an easily noticeable direct link, the purpose of which is clearly identifiable, to an Internet website maintained by the comptroller that provides information concerning the institution that is similar to the information required under Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.9745.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FACULTY INFORMATION.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for the institution:(1)  the student/faculty ratio;(2)  the percentage of all full-time equivalent faculty members with teaching responsibility who are tenured or tenure track;(3)  the percentage of semester credit hours taken by students classified as freshmen or sophomores that are taught by tenured and tenure track faculty members;(4)  the number of faculty members in each of the following faculty ranks, including a breakdown for each rank showing the numbers of faculty members by race, ethnicity, and gender:(A)  professor;(B)  associate professor;(C)  assistant professor;(D)  instructor;(E)  nontenured or nontenure track; and(F)  teaching assistant;(5)  average faculty salaries by rank;(6)  the amount of money appropriated by the legislature per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(7)  the total revenue the institution spent per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(8)  the amount of federal and private research expenditures per tenured or tenure track full-time equivalent faculty member;(9)  the number and percentage of faculty members holding extramural research grants;(10)  the number and names of awards to faculty members from nationally recognized entities, including those identified by The Center for Measuring University Performance; and(11)  the number of endowed professorships or chairs.(b)  Each institution to which this section applies shall update the information required by Subsection (a) for the preceding academic or fiscal year, as applicable, not later than December 31 of each year.(c)  The administrator designated under Section 51.974 by an institution to which this section applies is responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section, including rules to ensure the consistency of information made available under this section.
Sec. 51.975.  SHARING OF UNDERUSED CLASSROOMS.  (a)  A public institution of higher education may make the institution's classrooms not scheduled for use by the institution or by students, student organizations, or faculty of the institution between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. on one or more weekdays or between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on one or more Saturdays available for that day to another public junior college on request for teaching courses in the core curriculum, as defined by Section 61.821, or continuing education courses.(b)  A public institution of higher education that under Subsection (a) makes a classroom available to another institution shall continue to make that classroom, or a comparable classroom, available to the other institution for the duration of the semester or other academic term.(c)  An institution of higher education may charge another institution for the use of a classroom under this section at a rate not to exceed the rate permitted for this purpose as determined by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.  The coordinating board shall establish those rates in an amount to reimburse the host institution for utility costs and other costs, such as maintenance and custodial services, based on the infrastructure formula funding that the host institution would receive if teaching a course in that space itself for that time.
Sec. 51.976.  TRAINING AND EXAMINATION PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYEES OF CAMPUS PROGRAMS FOR MINORS ON WARNING SIGNS OF SEXUAL ABUSE AND CHILD MOLESTATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Camper" means a minor who is attending a campus program for minors.(2)  "Campus program for minors" means a program that:(A)  is operated by or on the campus of an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  offers recreational, athletic, religious, or educational activities for at least 20 campers who:(i)  are not enrolled at the institution; and(ii)  attend or temporarily reside at the camp for all or part of at least four days; and(C)  is not a day camp or youth camp as defined by Section 141.002, Health and Safety Code, or a facility or program required to be licensed by the Department of Family and Protective Services.(3)  "Department" means the Department of State Health Services.(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Program operator" means a person who owns, operates, or supervises a campus program for minors, regardless of profit.(7)  "Training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation" means a program approved by the department under Subsection (f).(b)  A program operator may not employ an individual in a position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors unless:(1)  the individual submits to the program operator or the campus program for minors has on file documentation that verifies the individual within the preceding two years successfully completed the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation; or(2)  the individual successfully completes the campus program for minors training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation, which must be approved by the department, during the individual's first five days of employment by the campus program for minors and the campus program issues and files documentation verifying successful completion.(c)  Subsection (b) does not apply to an individual who is a student enrolled at the institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted and whose contact with campers is limited to a single class of short duration.(d)  A program operator must:(1)  submit to the department:(A)  on the form and within the time prescribed by the department verification that each employee of the campus program for minors has complied with the requirements of this section; and(B)  the fee assessed by the department under Subsection (g); and(2)  retain in the operator's records a copy of the documentation required or issued under Subsection (b) for each employee until the second anniversary of the examination date.(e)  A person applying for or holding an employee position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors must successfully complete the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation during the applicable period prescribed by Subsection (b).(f)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission by rule shall establish criteria and guidelines for the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation required by this section.  The program must include training and an examination on the topics listed in Section 141.0095(e), Health and Safety Code.  The department may approve training and examination programs on sexual abuse and child molestation offered by trainers under contract with campus programs for minors or by online training organizations or may approve programs offered in another format authorized by the department.(g)  The department may assess a fee in the amount necessary to cover the costs of administering this section to:(1)  each person that applies for the department's approval of a training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation under this section; and(2)  each program operator who files with the department the verification form required under Subsection (d)(1)(A).(h)  The department at least every five years shall review each training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation approved by the department under Subsection (f) to ensure the program continues to meet the criteria and guidelines established by rule under that subsection.(i)  The department may investigate a person the department suspects of violating this section or a rule adopted under this section.  A person who violates this section is subject to the enforcement provisions of Section 141.015, Health and Safety Code, as if the person violated Chapter 141, Health and Safety Code, or a rule adopted under that chapter.(j)  The program operator and the institution that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted are immune from civil or criminal liability for any act or omission of an employee for which the employee is immune under Section 261.106, Family Code.(k)  A program operator shall consider the costs of compliance with this section in determining any charges or fees imposed and collected for participation in the campus program for minors.
Sec. 51.9761.  CHILD ABUSE REPORTING POLICY AND TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "other maltreatment" has the meaning assigned by Section 42.002, Human Resources Code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy governing the reporting of child abuse and neglect as required by Chapter 261, Family Code, for the institution and its employees.  The policy must require each employee of the institution to report child abuse and neglect in the manner required by Chapter 261, Family Code.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall provide training for employees who are professionals as defined by Section 261.101, Family Code, in prevention techniques for and the recognition of symptoms of sexual abuse and other maltreatment of children and the responsibility and procedure of reporting suspected occurrences of sexual abuse and other maltreatment.  The training must include:(1)  techniques for reducing a child's risk of sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(2)  factors indicating a child is at risk for sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(3)  the warning signs and symptoms associated with sexual abuse or other maltreatment and recognition of those signs and symptoms; and(4)  the requirements and procedures for reporting suspected sexual abuse or other maltreatment as provided by Chapter 261, Family Code.
Sec. 51.977.  EMPLOYMENT POLICIES FOR CERTAIN PERSONS EMPLOYED BY MEDICAL AND DENTAL UNITS.  (a)  The president of a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall determine whether a person employed by the unit for patient care or clinical activities is a full-time employee for purposes of:(1)  employees group benefits under Chapter 1551 or 1601, Insurance Code;(2)  leave under Chapter 661 or 662, Government Code; and(3)  longevity pay under Section 659.043, Government Code.(b)  A determination under Subsection (a) does not entitle a person who works less than 40 hours a week to the full state contribution to the cost of any coverage or benefits.  However, from money other than money appropriated from the general revenue fund, the employing medical and dental unit may contribute to that cost amounts in excess of the state contribution.
Sec. 51.978.  TEMPORARY HOUSING BETWEEN ACADEMIC TERMS FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS FORMERLY UNDER CONSERVATORSHIP OF DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND PROTECTIVE SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Academic term" includes a summer session.(b)  To be eligible to receive housing assistance from an institution of higher education under Subsection (c), a student must:(1)  have been under the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services or its predecessor in function on the day preceding:(A)  the student's 18th birthday; or(B)  the date the student's disabilities of minority are removed by a court under Chapter 31, Family Code;(2)  be enrolled full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately preceding the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;(3)  be registered or otherwise have taken the actions required by the institution to permit the student to enroll full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately following the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;  and(4)  lack other reasonable temporary housing alternatives between the academic terms described by Subdivisions (2) and (3), as determined by the institution.(c)  On the student's request, each institution of higher education shall assist an eligible student in locating temporary housing for any period beginning on the last day of an academic term and ending on the first day of the immediately following academic term, according to the institution's academic calendar.(d)  For each eligible student under Subsection (b) who also demonstrates financial need, the institution may:(1)  provide a stipend to cover any reasonable costs of the temporary housing that are not covered by other financial aid immediately available to the student for that purpose; or(2)  provide temporary housing directly to the student for the applicable period.(e)  The receipt of a stipend under Subsection (d) does not prohibit the student from receiving additional stipends under that subsection in one or more subsequent periods, based on the student's demonstrated financial need.(f)  An institution of higher education may use any available revenue, including legislative appropriations, and may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and donations for the purposes of this section.  The institution shall use any gifts, grants, and donations received for the purposes of this section before using other revenue.
Sec. 51.980.  INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC COMPETITION BASED ON BIOLOGICAL SEX.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athletic competition" means any athletic display between teams or individuals, such as a contest, exhibition, performance, or sport.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), an intercollegiate athletic team sponsored or authorized by an institution of higher education may not allow:(1)  a student to compete on the team in an intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution that is designated for the biological sex opposite to the student's biological sex; or(2)  a male student to compete on the team in a mixed-sex intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution in a position that is designated by rule or procedure for female students.(c)  An intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may allow a female student to compete in an intercollegiate athletic competition that is designated for male students if a corresponding intercollegiate athletic competition designated for female students is not offered or available.(d)  For purposes of this section:(1)  a student's biological sex is the biological sex correctly stated on:(A)  the student's official birth certificate, as described by Subdivision (2); or(B)  if the student's official birth certificate described by Paragraph (A) is unobtainable, another government record that accurately states the student's biological sex; and(2)  a statement of a student's biological sex on the student's official birth certificate is considered to have correctly stated the student's biological sex only if the statement was:(A)  entered at or near the time of the student's birth; or(B)  modified to correct a scrivener or clerical error in the student's biological sex.(e)  An institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may not retaliate against a person for reporting a violation of this section.(f)  A person may bring a civil action for injunctive relief against an institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) that violates this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules to implement this section.  The rules must ensure compliance with state and federal law regarding the confidentiality of student medical information, including Chapter 181, Health and Safety Code, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.).
Sec. 51.981.  OFF-CAMPUS WORKFORCE EDUCATION OR LOWER-DIVISION PROGRAMS REQUESTED BY EMPLOYERS.  An institution of higher education may enter into an agreement with an employer to provide a credit or noncredit off-campus workforce education or lower-division program to the institution's students at a site requested by the employer without the approval of a higher education regional council established under Subchapter N, regardless of whether the site at which the program would be offered is located within the institution's uniform state service region or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area, if:(1)  the employer has solicited an agreement to offer the program at that site with another institution of higher education that offers the same or substantially equivalent coursework as that requested by the employer;(2)  the proposed site for the off-campus program is located within the uniform state service region in which the institution described by Subdivision (1) is located or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area; and(3)  the institution of higher education described by Subdivision (1) does not finalize an offer to enter into an agreement with the employer that meets the employer's specifications for the off-campus program within six weeks after the employer's initial written solicitation requesting the institution to offer the program.
Sec. 51.982.  PROTECTIONS FOR PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Parenting student" means a student who is the parent or legal guardian of a child under 18 years of age.(b)  An institution of higher education may not require a pregnant or parenting student, solely because of the student's status as a pregnant or parenting student or due to issues related to the student's pregnancy or parenting, to:(1)  take a leave of absence or withdraw from the student's degree or certificate program;(2)  limit the student's studies;(3)  participate in an alternative program;(4)  change the student's major, degree, or certificate program; or(5)  refrain from joining or cease participating in any course, activity, or program at the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education shall provide reasonable accommodations to a pregnant student, including accommodations that:(1)  would be provided to a student with a temporary medical condition; or(2)  are related to the health and safety of the student and the student's unborn child, such as allowing the student to maintain a safe distance from substances, areas, and activities known to be hazardous to pregnant women or unborn children.(d)  An institution of higher education shall, for reasons related to a student's pregnancy, childbirth, or any resulting medical status or condition:(1)  excuse the student's absence;(2)  allow the student to make up missed assignments or assessments;(3)  allow the student additional time to complete assignments in the same manner as the institution allows for a student with a temporary medical condition; and(4)  provide the student with access to instructional materials and video recordings of lectures for classes for which the student has an excused absence under this section to the same extent that instructional materials and video recordings of lectures are made available to any other student with an excused absence.(e)  An institution of higher education shall allow a pregnant or parenting student to:(1)  take a leave of absence; and(2)  if in good academic standing at the time the student takes a leave of absence, return to the student's degree or certificate program in good academic standing without being required to reapply for admission.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy for students on pregnancy and parenting discrimination.  The policy must:(1)  include the contact information for the employee or office of the institution that is the designated point of contact for a student requesting each protection or accommodation under this section;(2)  be posted in an easily accessible, straightforward format on the institution's Internet website; and(3)  be made available annually to faculty, staff, and employees of the institution.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish minimum periods for which a pregnant or parenting student must be given a leave of absence under Subsection (e).  In establishing those periods, the board shall consider the maximum amount of time a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to complete the student's degree or certificate program.
Sec. 51.987.  CERTAIN ACADEMIC BOYCOTTS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES PROHIBITED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Subject to Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not implement an academic boycott of a foreign country that would prevent a student or faculty member of the institution from:(1)  studying or conducting research in or about the country; or(2)  interacting with the country's scholars or representatives.(c)  An institution of higher education may implement an academic boycott described by Subsection (b) of a foreign country included by the United States Department of State on a list of state sponsors of terrorism.  The boycott may not prevent a student enrolled at the institution from studying or being educated about the country.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.
Texas Administrative Code (TAC), Chapter 3, Subchapter A
TEXAS HIGHER EDUCATION COORDINATING BOARD
RULES APPLYING TO ALL PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN TEXAS REGARDING ELECTRONIC REPORTING OPTION FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES; AMNESTY
REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, OR STALKING AT CERTAIN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION; AUTHORIZING ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
Policy on Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, and Stalking
Reporting Required for Certain Incidents
Administrative Reporting Requirements
Failure to Report or False Report
Victim Request Not to Investigate
Disciplinary Process for Certain Violations
Student Withdrawal or Graduation Pending Disciplinary Charges; Request for Information from Another Postsecondary Educational Institution
Trauma-Informed Investigation Training
Memoranda of Understanding Required
Responsible and Confidential Employee
Required Transcript Notation When a Student Is Ineligible to Reenroll Due to Non-academic or Non-financial Reason
THECB Rules, TAC, Chapter 1, Subchapter DD
Texas Administrative Code
Texas Administrative Code
TEXAS HIGHER EDUCATION COORDINATING BOARD
AGENCY ADMINISTRATION
TITLE IX TRAINING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Authority and Purpose of the Title IX Training Advisory Committee
Committee Membership and Officers
Meetings and Tasks of the Committee
Report to the Board; Evaluation of Committee Costs and Effectiveness
TEC, Section 51.252
Sec. 51.002.  FUNDS SUBJECT TO CONTROL.  (a)  The governing board of each institution listed in Section 51.001 of this code may retain control of the following sums of money collected at the institution, subject to Section 51.008 of this code:(1)  student fees of all kinds;(2)  charges for use of rooms and dormitories;(3)  receipts from meals, cafes, and cafeterias;(4)  fees on deposit refundable to students under certain conditions;(5)  receipts from school athletic activities;(6)  income from student publications and other student activities;(7)  receipts from the sale of publication products and miscellaneous supplies and equipment;(8)  students' voluntary deposits of money for safekeeping;(9)  all other fees and local or institutional funds arising out of and by virtue of the educational activities, research, or demonstrations carried on by the institution;  and(10)  donations and gifts to the institution.(b)  The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to any income derived from the permanent university fund.
Sec. 51.003.  DEPOSITORIES.  (a)  The governing board of each institution may select one or more depositories as places of deposit for the funds enumerated in Section 51.002 of this code.  Depositories shall be selected on the basis of competitive bids.  If bids are taken orally, the bids shall be tabulated by the person taking the bids and made a part of the permanent records of the institution.(b)  The funds shall either be deposited in the depository bank or banks or invested as authorized by Chapter 2256, Government Code (Public Funds Investment Act).  Funds that are to be deposited in the depository bank or banks must be deposited within seven days from the date of receipt by the institution.(c)  The governing board shall require adequate surety bonds or securities to be posted to secure the deposits and may require additional security at any time it deems the deposits inadequately secured.  The depository banks selected may pledge their securities to protect the funds.(d)  A depository shall pay interest on the deposits at a rate agreed on by the depository and the governing board.(e)  Any surety bond furnished under the provisions of this section shall be payable to the governor and his successors in office.  Venue for a suit to recover an amount claimed by the state to be due on a surety bond is in Travis County.(f)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the governing board of each institution may maintain unsecured deposits in a foreign bank as necessary to support the institution's academic and research operations in the foreign country in which the bank is located, provided that no appropriated or tuition funds other than those collected from students enrolled in the affected programs are deposited.  The foreign bank must:(1)  be licensed and supervised by a central bank;(2)  be audited annually by an accounting firm that follows international financial reporting standards; and(3)  maintain a capital to total assets ratio that is not less than the greater of four percent or the minimum tier 1 capital to total assets ratio required for depository institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Sec. 51.0031.  DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS.  (a)  A governing board may deposit funds under its control as provided in Section 51.003 of this code, may invest funds under its control in accordance with Chapter 2256, Government Code and, with regard to donations, gifts, and trusts, may establish endowment funds that operate as trusts and are managed under prudent person standards.(b)  Funds described in this section may also be invested in cash management and fixed income funds held by organizations exempt from federal taxation under Section 501(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Section 501(f)), as that section may be amended.(c)  If a governing board has under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, such governing board may invest all funds described in this section under prudent person standards.(c-1)  If a governing board does not have under its control at least $25 million in book value of endowment funds, the governing board may contract to pool its funds described in this section with another institution that meets the $25 million in book value of endowment funds threshold established under Subsection (c), and have its funds invested by that governing board under prudent person standards.(d)  As used in this section, "prudent person standard" is the standard of care described in Article VII, Section 11b, of the Texas Constitution, and means that standard of judgment and care that prudent investors, exercising reasonable care, skill, and caution, would acquire or retain in light of the purposes, terms, distribution requirements, and other circumstances of the fund then prevailing, taking into consideration the investment of all the assets of the fund rather than a single investment.
Sec. 51.0032.  INVESTMENT REPORTS AND POLICIES.  (a)  A governing board shall adopt by rule or resolution a written investment policy for the investment of its institutional funds.(b)  Not less than quarterly, an institution of higher education shall prepare and submit to the governing board of the institution a written report of the institution's institutional funds investment transactions for the preceding reporting period.(c)  In addition to other information that may be required by the governing board, the report must contain:(1)  a summary statement of each pooled fund group that states the beginning market value for the reporting period, additions and changes to the market value during the period, and the ending market value for the period;  and(2)  the book value and market value of each separately invested asset at the beginning and end of the reporting period by type of asset and fund type invested.(d)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" means a governing board described in Section 51.0031(c).(2)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education under the governance of a governing board to which this section applies.(3)  "Pooled fund group" means an internally created fund of an institution of higher education in which one or more institutional accounts are invested.(4)  "Separately invested asset" means an account of an institution of higher education that is not invested in a pooled fund group.
Sec. 51.004.  SEPARATE ACCOUNTS;  TRUST FUNDS;  INTEREST.  (a)  Separate accounts shall be kept on the books of the institution showing the sources of all sums collected and the purposes for which disbursements are made.(b)  All trust funds, including gifts, grants, and bequests received, establishing or adding to endowment funds, loan and scholarship funds, and funds for other current restricted purposes, shall be credited to separate accounts and shall not be commingled with other local or institutional funds.(c)  If the governing board so elects, deposits of all funds not specifically required to be deposited to special accounts may be deposited in a single bank account if the records of the institution clearly reflect the balances attributable to general funds and various categories of trust funds.(d)  Interest received from depository banks for funds on deposit may be credited to an appropriate account in either general funds or trust funds in relation to the sources of temporary investments in time deposits, if the disposition of the earnings was not specified by the grantor.  Interest received from the trust funds time deposits shall be available for loans, scholarships, fellowships, institutional research, faculty aid, and other lawful purposes.
Sec. 51.0051.  ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGETS.  The governing board of each institution shall approve on or before September 1 of each year an itemized budget covering the operation of the institution for the fiscal year beginning on September 1 of each year.  The budget shall be prepared within the limits of legislatively appropriated general revenue and estimated educational and general funds.  The budget shall also include estimated institutional funds.  Copies of each such budget shall be furnished to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for distribution to the Governor's Budget and Planning Office, Legislative Budget Board, and Legislative Reference Library.  Additional copies shall be delivered to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board as required.  The governing board of the institution shall retain five copies of the budget for distribution to legislators or other state officials on request.
Sec. 51.0052.  APPLICATION REQUIREMENT FOR COLONIAS PROJECTS.  (a)  In this section, "colonia" means a geographic area that:(1)  is an economically distressed area as defined by Section 17.921, Water Code;(2)  is located in a county any part of which is within 62 miles of an international border; and(3)  consists of 11 or more dwellings that are located in close proximity to each other in an area that may be described as a community or neighborhood.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 573 (S.B. 241), Sec. 3.01(1), eff. September 1, 2019.(d)  Regarding any projects funded by an institution of higher education that provide assistance to colonias, the institution of higher education shall require an applicant for the funds to submit to the institution a colonia classification number, if one exists, for each colonia that may be served by the project proposed in the application.  If a colonia does not have a classification number, the institution of higher education may contact the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative to obtain the classification number.  On request of the institution, the secretary of state or the secretary of state's representative shall assign a classification number to the colonia.
Sec. 51.007.  PENALTY.  Any state officer, agent, employee, or member of a governing board of any of the above named institutions, or any other person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, and in addition may be sentenced to not less than 15 days nor more than three months in the county jail.  Failure to print and furnish to the officers above named, the reports above specified, shall subject all of the members of the governing board of the institutions above mentioned to the penalties provided for in this section.  Every day in excess of the number of days hereinabove provided for that any sum of money belonging to any of the funds enumerated in this subchapter, whether depositable in special depositories or whether those that should be deposited in the state treasury, shall be withheld from deposit at its proper place of deposit, shall constitute a separate offense and each day of such withholding shall subject the officer, agent, employee, or person so withholding said sum to the penalties herein provided for.
Sec. 51.008.  CERTAIN RECEIPTS TO BE DEPOSITED IN STATE TREASURY.  (a)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education is directed to designate special depository banks, subject to the approval of the comptroller, for the purpose of receiving and keeping certain receipts of the institution separate and apart from funds now deposited in the state treasury.  The receipts here referred to are described in Subsection (b) of this section.  The comptroller is directed to deposit the receipts, or funds representing such receipts, enumerated herein, in the special depository bank or banks nearest the institution credited with the receipts, so far as is practicable, and is authorized to withdraw such funds on drafts or checks prescribed by the comptroller. The comptroller is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to require collateral security for the protection of such funds pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 404, Government Code. For the purpose of facilitating the clearance and collection of the receipts herein enumerated, the comptroller is hereby authorized to deposit such receipts in any state depository bank and transfer funds representing such receipts enumerated herein to the respective special depository banks.  Banks so designated as special depository banks are hereby authorized to pledge their securities to protect such funds.(b)  The governing board of every state institution of higher education shall deposit in the state treasury all cash receipts accruing to any college or university under its control that may be derived from all sources except auxiliary enterprises, noninstructional services, agency, designated, and restricted funds, endowment and other gift funds, student loan funds, funds retained under Chapter 145 of this code, and Constitutional College Building Amendment funds.  The comptroller is directed to credit such receipts deposited by each such institution to a separate fund account for the institution depositing the receipts, but he shall not be required to keep separate accounts of types of funds deposited by each institution.  For the purpose of facilitating the transferring of such institutional receipts to the state treasury, each institution shall open in a local depository bank a clearing account to which it shall deposit daily all such receipts, and shall, not less often than every seven days, make remittances therefrom to the comptroller of all except $500 of the total balance in said clearing account, such remittances to be in the form of checks drawn on the clearing account by the duly authorized officers of the institution, and no disbursements other than remittances to the state treasury shall be made from such clearing account.  All money so deposited in the state treasury shall be paid out on warrants drawn by the comptroller as provided by law.(c)  The legislature is authorized to create revolving funds for the handling of funds of institutions of higher education, as enumerated herein, by making provision in each biennial appropriation bill enacted by the legislature.(d)  Nothing in this section affects the provisions of Title 47, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, usually referred to as the State Depository Law.  However, the limitation of deposits contained in Article 2532, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, 1925, as amended, shall not apply insofar as the specific funds enumerated in this section are concerned.(e)  This section prevails over Sections 51.001-51.007 of this code to the extent of any conflict.(f)  Interest earned on the receipts deposited under this section to an institution's separate fund account in the state treasury shall be credited to that separate fund account.(g)  Revenues collected at institutions of higher education and deposited in the state treasury pursuant to this section and Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, and the interest earned thereon, are dedicated to the institution which collected and deposited the funds irrespective of the year the funds were collected, deposited, or earned.  These funds may be only used for the support, maintenance, and operation of the institution as provided for by law.  Section 403.094(h), Government Code, does not apply to funds described in this section.(h)  Tuition revenues and revenue collected under Section 34.017, Natural Resources Code, that are deposited in the treasury pursuant to this section, and the interest earned on those revenues, shall be treated as designated funds in the general revenue fund.  Notwithstanding a pledge of those revenues made or to be made in the proceedings approved by the governing board of an institution of higher education authorizing the issuance or incurrence of bonds, the deposit of those revenues in the treasury to the credit of an account in the general revenue fund does not:(1)  affect in any manner the pledge of the revenues or the governing board's ability to pledge the revenues to secure and pay bonds issued or incurred by the governing board in accordance with law;(2)  cause the bonds to constitute a debt of the state or be payable from the full faith and credit of the state;(3)  change the character of the revenues as separate revenue of the institution collecting the revenue;  or(4)  cause the revenue to be considered general revenue for purposes of Sections 17 and 18, Article VII, Texas Constitution.
Sec. 51.009.  DEFINING AND ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INCOME.  (a)  "Local funds" are the items to be accounted for as "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section, but do not include general revenue funds.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(b)  "Institutional funds" means all funds collected at the institution that are not "educational and general funds" as described in Subsection (c) of this section.  These funds shall be accounted for in a manner recommended by the National Association of College and University Business Officers and approved by the comptroller of public accounts and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(c)  Each of the following shall be accounted for as educational and general funds:(1)  net tuition, special course fees charged under Sections 54.051(e) and (l), lab fees, student teaching fees, organized activity fees, and proceeds from the sale of educational and general equipment; and(2)  hospital and clinic fees received by a state-owned clinical care facility that is operated using general revenue fund appropriations for patient care.
Sec. 51.011.  DISPOSITION OF SMALL CREDIT BALANCES.  (a)  This section applies to a credit balance of less than $25 held by an institution of higher education that is presumed abandoned under Chapter 72, Property Code.(b)  An institution of higher education may maintain an unclaimed money fund and transfer to that fund a credit balance to which this section applies.  A deposit to the unclaimed money fund does not affect the ownership of the amount deposited.  The institution shall:(1)  adopt procedures for owners to make and receive payments of claims against the fund; and(2)  maintain a database that permits members of the public to search for ownership of unclaimed funds.(c)  The institution of higher education shall use the fund to pay the claims of persons establishing ownership of amounts transferred to the fund and shall hold and account for the unclaimed money fund as educational and general funds of the institution.  If the fund balance is insufficient to pay a valid claim, the institution shall pay the claim from the institution's other educational and general funds.(d)  Each fiscal year, after deducting funds sufficient to pay anticipated expenses of and claims against the unclaimed money fund, the institution shall use the balance of the fund as other educational and general funds of the institution.(e)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the comptroller by rule may establish minimum requirements for notice to owners of unclaimed money deposited in the unclaimed money fund and for charges for that notice.  The rules may not provide stricter requirements than the comptroller applies for amounts of less than $25 in the custody of the comptroller under Chapter 74, Property Code.(f)  If an institution of higher education maintains an unclaimed money fund under this section, Chapter 74, Property Code, does not apply to a credit balance to which this section applies.
SUBCHAPTER C. FACULTY DEVELOPMENT LEAVES OF ABSENCESec. 51.101.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned to it in Section 61.003 of this code, except that Texas State Technical College System is included and the Rodent and Predatory Animal Control Service is excluded for the purposes of this subchapter.(2)  "Governing board" means the body charged with policy direction of an institution of higher education.(3)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed by an institution of higher education on a full-time basis as a member of the faculty or staff and whose duties include teaching, research, administration, including professional librarians, or the performance of professional services.  However, the term does not include a person employed in a position which is in the institution's classified personnel system or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system.
Sec. 51.102.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.  The legislature finds that higher education is vitally important to the welfare, if not the survival, of Texas and the United States at this stage in history and that the quality of higher education is dependent upon the quality of college and university faculties.  The legislature finds, therefore, that money spent on recognized means for producing an excellent system of public higher education is money spent to serve a public purpose of great importance.  The legislature finds further that a sound program of faculty development leaves of absence designed to enable the faculty member to engage in study, research, writing, and similar projects for the purpose of adding to the knowledge available to himself, his students, his institution, and society generally is a well-recognized means for improving a state's program of public higher education.  The legislature's purpose in establishing the faculty development leave program provided for by this subchapter is to improve further the higher education available to the youth at the state-supported colleges and universities and to establish this program of faculty development leaves as part of the plan of compensation for the faculty of these colleges and universities.
Sec. 51.103.  GRANTING LEAVES OF ABSENCE;  PROCEDURES.  (a)  On the application of a faculty member, the governing board of an institution of higher education may grant a faculty development leave of absence for study, research, writing, field observations, or other suitable purpose, to a faculty member if it finds that he is eligible by reason of service, that the purpose for which he seeks a faculty development leave is one for which a faculty development leave may be granted, and that granting leave to him will not place on faculty development leave a greater number of faculty members than that authorized.(b)  The governing board by regulation shall establish a procedure whereby the applications for faculty development leaves of absence are received by a committee elected by the general faculty for evaluation and whereby this faculty committee then makes recommendations to the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education, who shall then make recommendations to the governing board as to which applications should be granted.
Sec. 51.105.  DURATION AND COMPENSATION.  (a)  The governing board may grant to a faculty member a faculty development leave either for one academic year at one-half of his regular salary or for one-half academic year at his full regular salary.  Payment of salary to the faculty member on faculty development leave may be made from the funds appropriated by the legislature specifically for that purpose, or from such other funds as might be available to the institution.(b)  A faculty member on faculty development leave may accept a grant for study, research, or travel from any institution of higher education, from a charitable, religious, or educational corporation or foundation, from any business enterprise, or from any federal, state, or local governmental agency.  An accounting of all grants shall be made to the governing board of the institution by the faculty member.  A faculty member on faculty development leave may not accept employment from any other person, corporation, or government, unless the governing board determines that it would be in the public interest to do so and expressly approves the employment.
Sec. 51.107.  RIGHTS RETAINED.  (a)  A faculty member on faculty development leave shall continue to be a member of the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or of the Optional Retirement Program of the institution of higher education, or of both, just as any other member of the faculty on full-time duty.(b)  The institution of higher education shall cause to be deducted from the compensation paid to a member of the faculty on faculty development leave the deposit and membership dues required to be paid by him to the Teacher Retirement System of Texas or to the Optional Retirement Program, or both, the contribution for Old Age and Survivors Insurance, and any other amounts required or authorized to be deducted from the compensation paid any faculty member.(c)  A member of the faculty on faculty development leave is a faculty member for purposes of participating in the programs and of receiving the benefits made available by or through the institution of higher education or the state to faculty members.
Sec. 51.153.  WESTERN INFORMATION NETWORK ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The Western Information Network Association is an agency of the state composed of the following state-supported member institutions of higher education:  Amarillo College, Angelo State University, Clarendon Junior College, Frank Phillips College, Howard County Junior College, Midwestern University, Odessa College, South Plains College, Sul Ross State University, Texas Tech University, The University of Texas at El Paso, and West Texas State University.(b)  The board by a majority vote may admit other state-supported institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(c)  The board by unanimous vote may admit private institutions of higher education to membership in the association on the approval of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System.(d)  The board by unanimous vote may admit other organizations to associate membership in the association.(e)  The Western Information Network Association is subject to the Texas Sunset Act (Chapter 325, Government Code).  Unless continued in existence as provided by that Act, the association is abolished September 1, 1989.
Sec. 51.161.  POWERS AND DUTIES OF ASSOCIATION.  (a)  The association may acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, a multichannel, two-way communications system, including closed-circuit television, linking classrooms, libraries, computer facilities, information retrieval systems, and communications facilities located at the member institutions.(b)  The association may lease, acquire, operate, and maintain, or obtain by contracting with any communications common carrier in accordance with its tariffs, any facilities in addition to those described in Subsection (a) of this section, which the board considers necessary or desirable in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.(c)  The association is authorized to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, operate, maintain, and equip a dormitory or dormitories located on or near the campus of any member institution of the association that is a state-supported institution of higher education, and to issue its revenue bonds therefor as provided in this subchapter.(d)  The association may interchange educational information with private educational institutions, school districts, the United States government, and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects, and use the facilities of the association only in the exchange, retrieval, and transfer of information and the interchange of approval course offering and instruction between member-institutions and other parties engaged in education or participating in educational projects.  Any dormitories leased, acquired, operated, and maintained by the association shall not be subject to the use limitation of this subsection that applies to all other facilities of the association.
Sec. 51.170.  REVENUE BONDS.  (a)  The board may issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of providing funds to lease, as lessor or lessee, acquire, purchase, construct, improve, enlarge, or equip any property, buildings, structures, or other facilities, including but not limited to dormitories, for and on behalf of the association.(b)  The bonds shall be payable from and secured by liens on and pledges of all or any part of the revenues from any lease rentals, rentals, charges, fees, or other resources of the board or association.(c)  The bonds may be issued to mature serially or otherwise within not more than 40 years from their date.  The board may provide for the subsequent issuance of additional parity bonds, or subordinate lien bonds, under the terms and conditions set forth in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(d)  The bonds, and any interest coupons appertaining to them, are negotiable instruments.  The bonds may be issued registrable as to principal alone or as to both principal and interest.  They shall be executed, and may be made redeemable prior to maturity, may be issued in the form, denominations, and manner, and under the terms, conditions, and details, may be sold in the manner, at the price, and under the terms, and shall bear interest at the rate or rates, as is determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.(e)  Proceeds from the sale of the bonds may be used for paying interest on the bonds during the period of the acquisition or construction of any facilities to be provided through the issuance of the bonds and for providing a reserve for the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds.  The proceeds may be placed on time deposit or invested until needed to the extent and in the manner provided in the bond resolution.(f)  The board shall fix and collect lease rentals, rentals, rates, charges, and fees, or any combination of them, from students or others for the occupancy, use, or availability of all or any of its property, buildings, structures, or other facilities in amounts which will be sufficient, together with any other pledged resources, to provide for all payments of principal, interest, and any other amounts required in connection with any bonds issued under this section, and, to the extent required by the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, to provide for the payment of expenses in connection with the issuance of the bonds and for the payment of operation, maintenance, and other expenses in connection with the property, buildings, structures, or facilities.(g)  Fees for the use or availability of all or any property, buildings, structures, or facilities may be pledged to the payment of the bonds, and shall be fixed and collected in the manner determined and provided by the board in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds.  The board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any resources of the board or association to the extent that the resources are permitted to be pledged to the payment of the revenue bonds.  Each board may pledge to the payment of the bonds all or any part of any grant, donation, or income received or to be received from the United States government or any other public or private source, whether pursuant to an agreement or otherwise.
Sec. 51.172.  APPROVAL OF BONDS;  REGISTRATION.  All bonds issued under this subchapter shall be submitted to the attorney general for examination.  If he finds that the bonds have been authorized in accordance with law, he shall approve them, and thereupon they shall be registered by the comptroller of public accounts.  After the approval and registration the bonds are incontestable for any reason and are valid and binding obligations in accordance with their terms for all purposes.  If the bonds recite that they are secured partially or otherwise by a pledge of the proceeds of a contract or lease made between the board and another party or parties, public agencies, or otherwise, a copy of the contract or lease and of the proceedings authorizing it may or may not be submitted to the attorney general along with the bond records.  If submitted, then the approval by the attorney general of the bonds shall constitute an approval of the contract or lease, and thereafter the contract or lease shall be incontestable.
Sec. 51.173.  BONDS AS LEGAL INVESTMENTS.  All bonds issued under this subchapter are legal and authorized investments for all banks, trust companies, building and loan associations, savings and loan associations, insurance companies of all kinds and types, fiduciaries, trustees, and guardians, and for all interest and sinking funds and other public funds of the State of Texas, and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic.  The bonds are eligible and lawful security for all deposits of public funds of the State of Texas and all agencies, subdivisions, and instrumentalities thereof, including all counties, cities, towns, villages, school districts, and all other kinds and types of districts, public agencies, and bodies politic, to the extent of the market value of the bonds, when accompanied by any unmatured interest coupons appurtenant to them.
Sec. 51.202.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.  (a)  The governing board of each state institution of higher education, including public junior colleges, may promulgate rules and regulations for the safety and welfare of students, employees, and property, and other rules and regulations it may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and the governance of the institution, providing for the operation and parking of vehicles on the grounds, streets, drives, alleys, and any other institutional property under its control, including but not limited to the following:(1)  limiting the rate of speed;(2)  assigning parking spaces and designating parking areas and their use and assessing a charge for parking;(3)  prohibiting parking as it deems necessary;(4)  removing vehicles parked in violation of institutional rules and regulations or law at the expense of the violator;  and(5)  instituting a system of registration for vehicle identification, including a reasonable charge.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 787 , Sec. 5, eff. September 1, 2015.
Sec. 51.203.  CAMPUS PEACE OFFICERS.  (a)  The governing boards of each state institution of higher education and public technical institute may employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.  The primary jurisdiction of a peace officer commissioned under this section includes all counties in which property is owned, leased, rented, or otherwise under the control of the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(b)  Within a peace officer's primary jurisdiction, a peace officer commissioned under this section:(1)  is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers;(2)  may, in accordance with Chapter 14, Code of Criminal Procedure, arrest without a warrant any person who violates a law of the state;  and(3)  may enforce all traffic laws on streets and highways.(c)  Outside a peace officer's primary jurisdiction a peace officer commissioned under this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers and may arrest any person who violates any law of the state if the peace officer:(1)  is summoned by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance;(2)  is assisting another law enforcement agency;  or(3)  is otherwise performing his duties as a peace officer for the institution of higher education or public technical institute that employs the peace officer.(d)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers.(e)  Any person commissioned under this Act must be a certified police officer under the requirements of the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.
Sec. 51.207.  VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION INSIGNIA;  VEHICLE PERMITS.  (a)  Each public institution of higher education may provide for the issuance and use of suitable vehicle identification insignia.  The institution may bar or suspend the permit of any vehicle from driving or parking on any institutional property for the violation of any rule or regulation promulgated by the board as well as for any violation of this subchapter.  Reinstatement of the privileges may be permitted and a reasonable fee assessed.(b)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is located in whole or part in an area in which a motor vehicle registered in the area is required to undergo a vehicle emissions inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.  The institution may not issue a permit to a student enrolled at the institution to park or drive a motor vehicle that is not registered in this state on institutional property unless the institution has provided written notice to the student concerning requirements for vehicle emissions inspections pursuant to Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code.(c)  The Public Safety Commission shall adopt rules providing for the inspection under Subchapter F, Chapter 548, Transportation Code, of motor vehicles not registered in this state for purposes of Subsection (b).(d)  This subsection applies only to a public institution of higher education campus that is not covered by Subsection (b).  The institution may not issue a permit to a student of the institution for driving or parking a motor vehicle on institutional property unless the institution provides written notice to the student that failure to register the vehicle in this state may violate state law if the owner of the vehicle resides in this state.(e)  Each institution of higher education that maintains a campus police force shall adopt procedures for enforcing State of Texas vehicle inspection laws for vehicles parking or driving on the campus of the institution.
Sec. 51.208.  PENALTY; COURTS HAVING JURISDICTION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person who violates any provision of this subchapter or any rule or regulation promulgated under this subchapter commits an offense. An offense under this subsection is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $200.(c)  The judge of a municipal court or any justice of the peace of any city or county where property under the control and jurisdiction of an institution of higher education or of a private or independent institution of higher education is located is each separately vested with all jurisdiction necessary to hear and determine criminal cases involving violations of this subchapter or rules or regulations promulgated under this subchapter for which the punishment does not exceed a fine of $200.
Sec. 51.212.  PEACE OFFICERS AT PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education, including private junior colleges, are authorized to employ and commission peace officers for the purpose of enforcing:(1)  state law on the campuses of private institutions of higher education; and(2)  state and local law, including applicable municipal ordinances, at other locations, as permitted by Subsection (b) or Section 51.2125.(b)  Any officer commissioned under the provisions of this section is vested with all the powers, privileges, and immunities of peace officers if the officer:(1)  is on the property under the control and jurisdiction of the respective private institution of higher education or is otherwise performing duties assigned to the officer by the institution, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution, but provided these duties are being performed within a county in which the institution has land; or(2)  to the extent authorized by Section 51.2125, is:(A)  requested by another law enforcement agency to provide assistance in enforcing state or local law, including a municipal ordinance, and is acting in response to that request; or(B)  otherwise assisting another law enforcement agency in enforcing a law described by Paragraph (A).(c)  Any officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers, and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties as may be required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(d)  The governing boards of private institutions of higher education are authorized to hire and pay on a regular basis peace officers commissioned by an incorporated city.  The officers shall be under the supervision of the hiring institution, but shall be subject to dismissal and disciplinary action by the city.  An incorporated city is authorized to contract with a private institution of higher education for the use and employment of its commissioned officers in any manner agreed to, provided that there is no expense incurred by the city.(e)  In this section, "private institution of higher education" means a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(f)  A campus police department of a private institution of higher education is a law enforcement agency and a governmental body for purposes of Chapter 552, Government Code, only with respect to information relating solely to law enforcement activities.
Sec. 51.2125.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS:  AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  This section applies only to a private institution of higher education that has under its control and jurisdiction property that is contiguous to, or located in any part within the boundaries of, a home-rule municipality that has a population of 1.18 million or more and is located predominantly in a county that has a total area of less than 1,000 square miles.  For purposes of this section, a private institution of higher education is a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003.(b)  In addition to exercising the authority provided under Section 51.212(d), the governing board of a private institution of higher education to which this section applies and the governing body of each municipality, regardless of the municipality's population, that is contiguous to, or the boundaries of which contain any part of, property under the control and jurisdiction of the private institution of higher education may enter into a written mutual assistance agreement in which peace officers commissioned by the institution or the applicable municipality serve the public interest by assisting, without any form of additional compensation or other financial benefit, the peace officers of the other party to the agreement in enforcing state or local law, including applicable municipal ordinances.  The agreement must be reviewed at least annually by the institution and the municipality and may be modified at that time by a written agreement signed by each party.  The agreement may be terminated at any time by a party to the agreement on the provision of reasonable notice to the other party to the agreement.(c)  A mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may designate the geographic area in which the campus peace officers are authorized to provide assistance to the peace officers of the municipality, except that if the agreement is entered into with a municipality described by Subsection (a) that elects all or part of the municipality's governing body from election districts, the designated geographic area consists of each of the election districts of the municipality's governing body that contains any part of the campus of the institution and each of the election districts of the governing body that is contiguous to another municipality that contains any part of the campus of the institution.(d)  This section does not affect a municipality's duty to provide law enforcement services to any location within the boundaries of the municipality.(e)  A peace officer providing assistance under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section may make arrests and exercise all other authority given to peace officers under other state law.  The municipal law enforcement agency has exclusive authority to supervise any campus peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the peace officers of the municipality.  A municipal peace officer operating under the agreement to assist the campus peace officers remains under the supervision of the municipal law enforcement agency.(f)  In the same manner and to the same extent as a municipality is liable for an act or omission of a peace officer employed by the municipality, a private institution of higher education is liable for an act or omission of a campus peace officer operating under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by this section at a location other than property under the control and jurisdiction of the institution.(g)  This section does not limit the authority of a campus peace officer to make a warrantless arrest outside the officer's jurisdiction as described by Article 14.03(d), Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.2126.  APPEAL BY CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR PROMOTIONAL BYPASS RELATED TO PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE UNDER MUTUAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT.  (a)  A campus peace officer acting under a mutual assistance agreement authorized by Section 51.2125 who is demoted, suspended, or terminated by the applicable private institution of higher education or who experiences a promotional bypass by the institution may elect to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section.(b)  To elect to appeal to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the campus peace officer must submit to the head of the institution's law enforcement agency not later than the 30th day after the date of the action being appealed a written request stating the officer's decision to appeal to such a hearing examiner.(c)  The hearing examiner's decision is final and binding on all parties.  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal the institution's action to an independent third party hearing examiner under this section, the officer or institution may appeal the examiner's decision to a district court only as provided by Subsection (j).(d)  If a campus peace officer elects to appeal to a hearing examiner, the officer and the head of the institution's law enforcement agency or their designees shall attempt to agree on the selection of an impartial hearing examiner.  If the parties do not agree on the selection of a hearing examiner before the 10th day after the date the appeal is filed, the parties immediately shall request a list of seven qualified neutral arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, or their successors in function.  The officer and the agency head or their designees may agree on one of the seven neutral arbitrators on the list.  If the parties do not agree before the fifth business day after the date the parties receive the list, the parties or their designees shall alternate striking a name from the list, and the single name remaining after all other names have been struck is selected as the hearing examiner.  The parties or their designees shall agree on a date for the hearing.(e)  The appeal hearing must begin as soon as an appearance by the hearing examiner can be scheduled.  If the hearing examiner cannot begin the hearing before the 45th day after the date of selection, the campus peace officer may, within 48 hours after learning of that fact, call for the selection of a new hearing examiner using the procedure prescribed by Subsection (d).(f)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the hearing examiner has the same duties and powers that a civil service commission has in conducting a hearing or hearing an appeal under Chapter 143, Local Government Code, including the right to issue subpoenas.  The hearing examiner may:(1)  order that the campus peace officer be reinstated to the same position or status in which the officer was employed immediately before the demotion, suspension, or termination or, in the case of a promotional bypass, to the position or status with respect to which the officer experienced the bypass; and(2)  award the officer lost wages and any other compensation lost as a result of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, as applicable.(g)  In a hearing conducted under this section, the parties may agree to an expedited hearing procedure.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, in an expedited procedure the hearing examiner shall issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 10th day after the date the hearing is completed.(h)  In an appeal that does not involve an expedited hearing procedure, the hearing examiner shall make a reasonable effort to issue a decision on the appeal not later than the 30th day after the later of the date the hearing is completed or the briefs are filed.  The hearing examiner's inability to meet the time requirements imposed by this section does not affect the hearing examiner's jurisdiction, the validity of the disciplinary action or promotional bypass, or the hearing examiner's final decision.(i)  The hearing examiner's fees and expenses shall be paid in equal amounts by the parties.  The costs of a witness shall be paid by the party who calls the witness.(j)  A district court may hear an appeal of a hearing examiner's decision only on the grounds that the hearing examiner was without jurisdiction or exceeded the examiner's jurisdiction or that the decision was procured by fraud, collusion, or other unlawful means.  An appeal must be brought in the district court having jurisdiction in the municipality in which the institution is located.
Sec. 51.214.  SECURITY OFFICERS FOR MEDICAL CORPORATIONS IN CERTAIN MUNICIPALITIES.  (a)  In any municipality with a population of 1.18 million or more located primarily in a county with a population of 2.5 million or more, the governing board of a private, nonprofit medical corporation, or of the parent corporation of such medical corporation, that provides police or security services for an institution of higher education or a private postsecondary educational institution located within one of the medical corporation's or parent corporation's medical complexes, or that provides police or security services for another medical complex legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or parent corporation, may employ and commission police or security personnel to enforce the law of this state within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).(b)  An officer commissioned under this section may make arrests and has all the powers, privileges, and immunities of a peace officer while performing the officer's assigned duties within the jurisdiction designated by Subsection (c).  An officer assigned to duty and commissioned shall take and file the oath required of peace officers and shall execute and file a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000, payable to the governor, with two or more good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that the officer will fairly, impartially, and faithfully perform the duties required of the officer by law.  The bond may be sued on from time to time in the name of the person injured until the whole amount is recovered.(c)  The jurisdiction of an officer commissioned under this section is limited to:(1)  property under the control and jurisdiction of the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation or any entity legally affiliated with or owned, leased, managed, or controlled by the medical corporation or its parent corporation;(2)  a street or alley that abuts the property or an easement in or a right-of-way over or through the property described by Subdivision (1); and(3)  any other location in which the officer is performing duties assigned to the officer by the private, nonprofit medical corporation or its parent corporation, regardless of whether the officer is on property under the control and jurisdiction of the medical corporation or its parent corporation, provided that the assigned duties are consistent with the mission of the medical corporation or its parent corporation and are being performed within a county in which the medical corporation or its parent corporation owns real property.(d)  An officer commissioned under this section is not entitled to compensation or benefits provided by this state or a political subdivision of this state.(e)  The state or a political subdivision of this state is not liable for an act or omission of an officer commissioned under this section during the performance of the officer's assigned duties.(f)  A person may not be commissioned under this section unless the person obtains a peace officer license issued by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.  The employing medical corporation or parent corporation shall pay to the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement on behalf of an employee any fees that are necessary to obtain a required license.(g)  A person's commission and any authority to act as an officer under this section are automatically revoked if the person's employment is terminated for any reason.
Sec. 51.215.  ACCESS TO POLICE RECORDS OF EMPLOYMENT APPLICANTS.  (a)  An institution of higher education is entitled to obtain criminal history record information pertaining to an applicant for employment for a security-sensitive position.  The institution of higher education may deny employment to an applicant for a security-sensitive position who fails to provide a complete set of fingerprints upon request.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(c)  An institution of higher education may use information obtained under this section only for the purpose of evaluating applicants for employment in security-sensitive positions.  Security-sensitive positions shall be restricted to employees who handle currency, have access to a computer terminal, have access to a master key, or who work in an area of the institution which has been designated as a security-sensitive area.  A security-sensitive position shall be so identified in the job description and advertisement for the position.(d)  Repealed by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 790, Sec. 46(6), eff. Sept. 1, 1993.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" means:(1)  an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(8) of this code;  and(2)  a private institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003(15) of this code.
Sec. 51.217.  MULTIHAZARD EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; SAFETY AND SECURITY AUDIT.  (a)  In this section, "institution"  means a general academic teaching institution, a medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution shall adopt and implement a multihazard emergency operations plan for use at the institution.  The plan must address mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery.  The plan must provide for:(1)  employee training in responding to an emergency;(2)  mandatory drills to prepare students, faculty, and employees for responding to an emergency;(3)  measures to ensure coordination with the Department of State Health Services, local emergency management agencies, law enforcement, health departments, and fire departments in the event of an emergency; and(4)  the implementation of a safety and security audit as required by Subsection (c).(c)  At least once every three years, an institution shall conduct a safety and security audit of the institution's facilities.  To the extent possible, an institution shall follow safety and security audit procedures developed in consultation with the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(d)  An institution shall report the results of the safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) to the institution's board of regents and the division of emergency management of the office of the governor.(e)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), any document or information collected, developed, or produced during a safety and security audit conducted under Subsection (c) is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  A document relating to an institution's multihazard emergency operations plan is subject to disclosure if the document enables a person to:(1)  verify that the institution has established a plan and determine the agencies involved in the development of the plan and the agencies coordinating with the institution to respond to an emergency, including the Department of State Health Services, local emergency services agencies, law enforcement agencies, health departments, and fire departments;(2)  verify that the institution's plan was reviewed within the last 12 months and determine the specific review dates;(3)  verify that the plan addresses the four phases of emergency management under Subsection (b);(4)  verify that institution employees have been trained to respond to an emergency and determine the types of training, the number of employees trained, and the person conducting the training;(5)  verify that each campus has conducted mandatory emergency drills and exercises in accordance with the plan and determine the frequency of the drills;(6)  verify that the institution has completed a safety and security audit under Subsection (c) and determine the date the audit was conducted, the person conducting the audit, and the date the institution presented the results of the audit to the board of regents; and(7)  verify that the institution has addressed any recommendations by the board of regents for improvement of the plan and determine the institution's progress within the last 12 months.(g)  The personal information of an individual maintained in an institution's emergency notification system is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code.  In this subsection, "personal information" includes an e-mail address or telephone number maintained in order to notify an individual of an emergency.
Sec. 51.218.  EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education and private or independent institution of higher education shall establish an emergency alert system for the institution's students and staff, including faculty.  The emergency alert system must use e-mail or telephone notifications in addition to any other alert method the institution considers appropriate to provide timely notification of emergencies affecting the institution or its students and staff.(c)  At the time a student initially enrolls or registers for courses or a staff member begins employment, the institution shall:(1)  obtain a personal telephone number or e-mail address from the student or staff member to be used to notify the individual in the event of an emergency; and(2)  register the student or staff member in the institution's emergency alert system.(d)  A student or staff member may elect not to participate in an emergency alert system established under this section.  An election under this subsection may be submitted electronically or in writing, as chosen by the institution, and must be renewed at the start of each academic year.(e)  The personal identifying information obtained from an individual for the purpose of the emergency alert system of an institution of higher education, including an e-mail address or telephone number, is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Section 552.021, Government Code.(f)  Expired.
Sec. 51.220.  PUBLIC JUNIOR COLLEGE SCHOOL MARSHALS.  (a)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a public junior college may appoint one or more school marshals.(c)  The governing board of a public junior college may select for appointment as a school marshal under this section an applicant who is an employee of the public junior college and certified as eligible for appointment under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code.  The governing board may, but shall not be required to, reimburse the amount paid by the applicant to participate in the training program under that section.(d)  A school marshal appointed by the governing board of a public junior college may carry a concealed handgun or possess a handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus, but only:(1)  in the manner provided by written regulations adopted by the governing board; and(2)  at a specific public junior college campus as specified by the governing board. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 795 (H.B. 781), Sec. 1 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d):(1)  must:(A)  authorize a school marshal to carry a concealed handgun as described by Subsection (d); and(B)  require a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal to be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement; and(2)  may not require a school marshal to store the handgun in a locked container while on duty. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 851 (S.B. 741), Sec. 3 (e)  Any written regulations adopted for purposes of Subsection (d) must provide that a school marshal may carry a concealed handgun on the school marshal's person or possess the handgun on the physical premises of a public junior college campus in a locked and secured safe or other locked and secured location.  The written regulations must also require that a handgun carried or possessed by a school marshal may be loaded only with frangible duty ammunition approved for that purpose by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.(f)  A school marshal may use a handgun the school marshal is authorized to carry or possess under this section only under circumstances that would justify the use of deadly force under Section 9.32 or 9.33, Penal Code.(g)  A public junior college employee's status as a school marshal becomes inactive on:(1)  expiration of the employee's school marshal license under Section 1701.260, Occupations Code;(2)  suspension or revocation of the employee's license to carry a concealed handgun issued under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code;(3)  termination of the employee's employment with the public junior college; or(4)  notice from the governing board of the public junior college that the employee's services as school marshal are no longer required.(h)  The identity of a school marshal appointed under this section is confidential, except as provided by Section 1701.260(j), Occupations Code, and is not subject to a request under Chapter 552, Government Code.(i)  If a parent or guardian of a student enrolled at a public junior college inquires in writing, the governing board of the public junior college shall provide the parent or guardian written notice indicating whether any employee of the public junior college is currently appointed a school marshal.  The notice may not disclose information that is confidential under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.232.  IDENTIFICATION OF PERSONS ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, as determined by the chief administrative officer of a state-supported institution of higher education, the chief administrative officer, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility of the institution, may require that any person on the campus or facility present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official institutional identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution.(b)  If any person refuses or fails upon request to present evidence of his identification, or if the person is a student or employee of the institution, his student or employee official identification card, or other evidence of his relationship with the institution, and if it reasonably appears that the person has no legitimate reason to be on the campus or facility, the person may be ejected from the campus or facility.
Sec. 51.233.  WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT TO REMAIN ON CAMPUS.  (a)  During periods of disruption, the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, may notify a person that consent to remain on the campus or facility under the control of the chief administrative officer has been withdrawn whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility.(b)  In no case shall consent be withdrawn for longer than 14 days from the date on which consent was initially withdrawn.(c)  Notification shall be in accordance with procedures set out in Section 51.234 of this code.
Sec. 51.234.  NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  When the chief administrative officer of a campus or other facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or an officer or employee of the institution designated by him to maintain order on the campus or facility, decides to withdraw consent for any person to remain on the campus or facility, he shall notify that person in writing that consent to remain is withdrawn.  The written notice must contain all of the following:(1)  that consent to remain on the campus has been withdrawn and the number of days for which consent has been withdrawn, not to exceed 14;(2)  the name and job title of the person withdrawing consent, along with an address where the person withdrawing consent can be contacted during regular working hours;(3)  a brief statement of the activity or activities resulting in the withdrawal of consent;  and(4)  notification that the person from whom consent has been withdrawn is entitled to a hearing on the withdrawal not later than three days from the date of receipt by the chief administrative officer of a request for a hearing.
Sec. 51.236.  CONFIRMATION OF WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, a person designated by him for this purpose, upon reviewing the written report described in Section 51.235, finds that there was reasonable cause to believe that the person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus or facility, and that his presence on the campus or facility will constitute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation of the campus or facility, he may enter written confirmation upon the report of the action taken by the officer or employee.(b)  If the chief administrative officer, or in his absence, the person designated by him, does not confirm the action of the officer or employee within 24 hours after the time that consent was withdrawn, the action of the officer or employee shall be deemed void and of no force or effect, except that any arrest made during the period shall not for this reason be deemed not to have been made for probable cause.
Sec. 51.237.  REQUEST FOR HEARING.  (a)  A person from whom consent has been withdrawn may submit a written request for a hearing on the withdrawal to the chief administrative officer within the 14-day period.  The written request must state the address to which notice of hearing is to be sent.  The chief administrative officer shall grant a hearing not later than three days from the date of receipt of the request and shall immediately mail a written notice of the time, place, and date of the hearing to the person.(b)  The hearing shall be held before a duly designated discipline committee or authorized hearing officer of the institution in accordance with Section 51.243.  In no instance shall the person issuing the withdrawal notice or causing it to be issued serve on any committee where the validity of his order of withdrawal is in question.
Sec. 51.239.  ENTERING OR REMAINING ON CAMPUS AFTER WITHDRAWAL OF CONSENT.  (a)  Any person who has been notified by the chief administrative officer of a campus or facility of a state-supported institution of higher education, or by an officer or employee designated by the chief administrative officer to maintain order on the campus or facility, that consent to remain on the campus or facility has been withdrawn pursuant to Section 51.233, who has not had consent reinstated, and who willfully and knowingly enters or remains upon the campus or facility during the period for which consent has been withdrawn, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(b)  This section does not apply to any person who enters or remains on the campus or facility for the sole purpose of applying to the chief administrative officer or authorized officer or employee for the reinstatement of consent or for the sole purpose of attending a hearing on the withdrawal.
Sec. 51.241.  STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES BARRED FROM CAMPUS AFTER SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL.  (a)  Every student or employee who has been suspended or dismissed from a state-supported institution of higher education after a hearing, in accordance with procedures established by the institution, for disrupting the orderly operation of the campus or facility of the institution, as a condition of the suspension or dismissal, may be denied access to the campus or facility, or both, of the institution for the period of suspension, and in the case of dismissal, for a period not to exceed one year.(b)  A person who has been notified by personal service of the suspension or dismissal and condition and who willfully and knowingly enters upon the campus or facility of the institution to which he has been denied access, without the express written permission of the chief administrative officer of the campus or facility, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to punishment as set out in Section 51.244.(c)  Knowledge shall be presumed if personal service has been given as prescribed in Subsection (b) of this section.
Sec. 51.243.  REQUIRED HEARING PROCEDURES.  A person from whom consent to remain on the campus of a state-supported institution of higher education has been withdrawn in accordance with Section 51.233 is entitled, in addition to the procedures set out in Section 51.234, to the following:(1)  to be represented by counsel;(2)  to the right to call and examine witnesses and to cross-examine adverse witnesses;(3)  to have all matters upon which the decision may be based introduced into evidence at the hearing in his presence;(4)  to have the decision based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing;(5)  to prohibit the introduction of statements made against him unless he has been advised of their content and the names of the persons who made them, and has been given the opportunity to rebut unfavorable inferences that might otherwise be drawn;  and(6)  to have all findings made at the hearing be final, subject only to his right to appeal to the president and the governing board of the institution.
SUBCHAPTER E-2.  REPORTING INCIDENTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.251.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" mean dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as applicable, that an institution of higher education is required to report under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)).(3)  "Employee of a postsecondary educational institution" does not include a student enrolled at the institution.(4)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(5)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.252.  REPORTING REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution who, in the course and scope of employment, witnesses or receives information regarding the occurrence of an incident that the employee reasonably believes constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who was a student enrolled at or an employee of the institution at the time of the incident shall promptly report the incident to the institution's Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c) or (c-1), the report must include all information concerning the incident known to the reporting person that is relevant to the investigation and, if applicable, redress of the incident, including whether an alleged victim has expressed a desire for confidentiality in reporting the incident.(c)  An employee of a postsecondary educational institution designated by the institution as a person with whom students may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking or who receives information regarding such an incident under circumstances that render the employee's communications confidential or privileged under other law shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include any information that would violate a student's expectation of privacy.  This subsection does not affect the employee's duty to report an incident under any other law.(c-1)  A campus peace officer employed by a postsecondary educational institution who receives information regarding an incident described by Subsection (a) from an alleged victim who chooses to complete a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure, shall, in making a report under this section, state only the type of incident reported and may not include the victim's name, phone number, address, or other information that may directly or indirectly reveal the victim's identity.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), a person is not required to make a report under this section concerning:(1)  an incident in which the person was a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking; or(2)  an incident of which the person received information due to a disclosure made at a sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking public awareness event sponsored by a postsecondary educational institution or by a student organization affiliated with the institution.
Sec. 51.253.  ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.  (a)  Not less than once every three months, the Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's chief executive officer a written report on the reports received under Section 51.252, including information regarding:(1)  the investigation of those reports;(2)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports; and(3)  the reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any.(b)  The Title IX coordinator or deputy Title IX coordinator of a postsecondary educational institution shall immediately report to the institution's chief executive officer an incident reported to the coordinator under Section 51.252 if the coordinator has cause to believe that the safety of any person is in imminent danger as a result of the incident.(c)  Subject to Subsection (d), at least once during each fall or spring semester, the chief executive officer of a postsecondary educational institution shall submit to the institution's governing body and post on the institution's Internet website a report concerning the reports received under Section 51.252.  The report:(1)  may not identify any person; and(2)  must include:(A)  the number of reports received under Section 51.252;(B)  the number of investigations conducted as a result of those reports;(C)  the disposition, if any, of any disciplinary processes arising from those reports;(D)  the number of those reports for which the institution determined not to initiate a disciplinary process, if any; and(E)  any disciplinary actions taken under Section 51.255.(d)  If for any semester a postsecondary educational institution has fewer than 1,500 enrolled students, the chief executive officer of the institution shall submit and post a report required under Subsection (c) for that semester only if more than five reports were received under Section 51.252 during that semester.
Sec. 51.254.  IMMUNITIES.  (a)  A person acting in good faith who reports or assists in the investigation of a report of an incident described by Section 51.252(a) or who testifies or otherwise participates in a disciplinary process or judicial proceeding arising from a report of such an incident:(1)  is immune from civil liability, and from criminal liability for offenses punishable by fine only, that might otherwise be incurred or imposed as a result of those actions; and(2)  may not be subjected to any disciplinary action by the postsecondary educational institution at which the person is enrolled or employed for any violation by the person of the institution's code of conduct reasonably related to the incident for which suspension or expulsion from the institution is not a possible punishment.(b)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a person who perpetrates or assists in the perpetration of the incident reported under Section 51.252.
Sec. 51.256.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  Unless waived in writing by the alleged victim, the identity of an alleged victim of an incident reported under Section 51.252:(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  persons employed by or under contract with the postsecondary educational institution to which the report is made who are necessary to conduct an investigation of the report or any related hearings;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report;(C)  the person or persons alleged to have perpetrated the incident, to the extent required by other law; or(D)  potential witnesses to the incident as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report.(b)  A disclosure under Subsection (a) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed as prohibiting a victim from making a report to a law enforcement agency using a pseudonym form described by Article 58.102, 58.152, 58.202, or 58.252, Code of Criminal Procedure.
Sec. 51.258.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  The chief executive officer of each postsecondary educational institution shall annually certify in writing to the coordinating board that the institution is in substantial compliance with this subchapter.(b)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(c)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (b), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (b) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(e)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (b) using state or federal money.(f)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(g)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the calendar year preceding the date of the report.
SUBCHAPTER E-3.  SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKINGSec. 51.281.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Dating violence," "sexual assault," and "stalking" have the meanings assigned by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1092(f)(6)(A)).(3)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(4)  "Sexual harassment" means unwelcome, sex-based verbal or physical conduct that:(A)  in the employment context, unreasonably interferes with a person's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; or(B)  in the education context, is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that the conduct interferes with a student's ability to participate in or benefit from educational programs or activities at a postsecondary educational institution.
Sec. 51.282.  POLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT, SEXUAL ASSAULT, DATING VIOLENCE, AND STALKING.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall adopt a policy on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking applicable to each student enrolled at and each employee of the institution.  The policy must:(1)  include:(A)  definitions of prohibited behavior;(B)  sanctions for violations;(C)  the protocol for reporting and responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking;(D)  interim measures to protect victims of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking during the pendency of the institution's disciplinary process, including protection from retaliation, and any other accommodations available to those victims at the institution; and(E)  a statement regarding:(i)  the importance of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking going to a hospital for treatment and preservation of evidence, if applicable, as soon as practicable after the incident;(ii)  the right of a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to report the incident to the institution and to receive a prompt and equitable resolution of the report; and(iii)  the right of a victim of a crime to choose whether to report the crime to law enforcement, to be assisted by the institution in reporting the crime to law enforcement, or to decline to report the crime to law enforcement; and(2)  be approved by the institution's governing board before final adoption by the institution.(b)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall make the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy available to students, faculty, and staff members by:(1)  including the policy in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook; and(2)  creating and maintaining a web page dedicated solely to the policy that is easily accessible through a clearly identifiable link on the institution's Internet website home page.(c)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall require each entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student to attend an orientation on the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy before or during the first semester or term in which the student is enrolled at the institution.  The institution shall establish the format and content of the orientation.  The orientation:(1)  may be provided online; and(2)  must include the statements described by Subsection (a)(1)(E).(d)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and implement a comprehensive prevention and outreach program on sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The program must:(1)  address a range of strategies to prevent sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking, including a victim empowerment program, a public awareness campaign, primary prevention, bystander intervention, and risk reduction; and(2)  include providing to students information regarding the protocol for reporting incidents of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), including the name, office location, and contact information of the institution's Title IX coordinator, by:(A)  e-mailing the information to each student at the beginning of each semester or other academic term; and(B)  including the information in the orientation required under Subsection (c).(e)  As part of the protocol for responding to reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking adopted under Subsection (a), each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  to the greatest extent practicable based on the number of counselors employed by the institution, ensure that each alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking and any other person who reports such an incident are offered counseling provided by a counselor who does not provide counseling to any other person involved in the incident; and(2)  notwithstanding any other law, allow an alleged victim or alleged perpetrator of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking to drop a course in which both parties are enrolled without any academic penalty.(f)  Each biennium, each postsecondary educational institution shall review the institution's sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking policy and, with approval of the institution's governing board, revise the policy as necessary.
Sec. 51.2825.  CERTAIN DUTIES OF CAMPUS PEACE OFFICER INVESTIGATING FAMILY VIOLENCE, STALKING, HARASSMENT, OR TERRORISTIC THREAT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Campus peace officer" means a peace officer commissioned under Section 51.203 or 51.212.(2)  "Family violence" has the meaning assigned by Section 71.004, Family Code.(3)  "Harassment" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.07, Penal Code.(4)  "Stalking" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 42.072, Penal Code.(5)  "Terroristic threat" means any conduct that constitutes an offense under Section 22.07, Penal Code.(b)  A campus peace officer who responds to a disturbance call that may involve family violence or investigates an allegation of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat shall advise any possible adult victim of all reasonable means to prevent the occurrence of further offenses, including by providing the written notice adopted by the Health and Human Services Commission under Section 51A.003, Human Resources Code.  In addition to the required notice under this subsection, a campus peace officer shall provide to the possible victim any available written information regarding campus and local resources for victims of family violence, stalking, harassment, or terroristic threat.
Sec. 51.284.  AMNESTY FOR STUDENTS REPORTING CERTAIN INCIDENTS.  (a) A postsecondary educational institution may not take any disciplinary action against a student enrolled at the institution who in good faith reports to the institution being the victim of, or a witness to, an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking for a violation by the student of the institution's code of conduct occurring at or near the time of the incident, regardless of the location at which the incident occurred or the outcome of the institution's disciplinary process regarding the incident, if any.(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may investigate to determine whether a report of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking was made in good faith.(c)  A determination that a student is entitled to amnesty under Subsection (a) is final and may not be revoked.(d)  Subsection (a) does not apply to a student who reports the student's own commission or assistance in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.(e)  This section may not be construed to limit a postsecondary educational institution's ability to provide amnesty from application of the institution's policies in circumstances not described by Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.285.  VICTIM REQUEST NOT TO INVESTIGATE.  (a)  If an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident, the institution may investigate the alleged incident in a manner that complies with the confidentiality requirements under Section 51.291.  In determining whether to investigate the alleged incident, the institution shall consider:(1)  the seriousness of the alleged incident;(2)  whether the institution has received other reports of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking committed by the alleged perpetrator or perpetrators;(3)  whether the alleged incident poses a risk of harm to others; and(4)  any other factors the institution determines relevant.(b)  If a postsecondary educational institution decides not to investigate an alleged incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking based on the alleged victim's request not to investigate, the institution shall take any steps the institution determines necessary to protect the health and safety of the institution's community in relation to the alleged incident.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution shall inform an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking who requests the institution not to investigate the alleged incident of the institution's decision whether to investigate the alleged incident.
Sec. 51.286.  DISCIPLINARY PROCESS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.  A postsecondary educational institution that initiates a disciplinary process concerning an allegation that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking shall:(1)  provide to the student and the alleged victim a prompt and equitable opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence relevant to the alleged violation during the disciplinary process;(2)  ensure that both the student and the alleged victim have reasonable and equitable access to all evidence relevant to the alleged violation in the institution's possession, including any statements made by the alleged victim or by other persons, information stored electronically, written or electronic communications, social media posts, or physical evidence, redacted as necessary to comply with any applicable federal or state law regarding confidentiality; and(3)  take reasonable steps to protect the student and the alleged victim from retaliation and harassment during the pendency of the disciplinary process.
Sec. 51.287.  STUDENT WITHDRAWAL OR GRADUATION PENDING DISCIPLINARY CHARGES.  (a)  If a student withdraws or graduates from a postsecondary educational institution pending a disciplinary charge alleging that the student violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, the institution:(1)  may not end the disciplinary process or issue a transcript to the student until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility; and(2)  shall expedite the institution's disciplinary process as necessary to accommodate both the student's and the alleged victim's interest in a speedy resolution.(b)  On request by another postsecondary educational institution, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide to the requesting institution information relating to a determination by the institution that a student enrolled at the institution violated the institution's code of conduct by committing sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking.
Sec. 51.290.  RESPONSIBLE AND CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE; STUDENT ADVOCATE.  (a)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall:(1)  designate:(A)  one or more employees to act as responsible employees for purposes of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Section 1681 et seq.); and(B)  one or more employees as persons to whom students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking; and(2)  inform each student enrolled at the institution of the responsible and confidential employees designated under Subdivision (1).(b)  A postsecondary educational institution may designate one or more students enrolled at the institution as student advocates to whom other students enrolled at the institution may speak confidentially concerning sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.  The institution shall notify each student enrolled at the institution of the student advocates designated under this subsection.(c)  A confidential employee designated under Subsection (a)(1)(B) or a student advocate designated under Subsection (b) may not disclose any communication made by a student to the employee or advocate unless the student consents to the disclosure or the employee or advocate is required to make the disclosure under state or federal law.
Sec. 51.291.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  (a)  The protections provided by this section apply to:(1)  an alleged victim of an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking reported to a postsecondary educational institution;(2)  a person who reports to a postsecondary educational institution an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking, who sought guidance from the institution concerning such an incident, or who participated in the institution's investigation of such an incident; and(3)  a person who is alleged in a report made to a postsecondary educational institution to have committed or assisted in the commission of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking if, after completing an investigation, the institution determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(b)  Unless waived in writing by the person, the identity of a person described by Subsection (a):(1)  is confidential and not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code; and(2)  may be disclosed only to:(A)  the postsecondary educational institution to which the report described by Subsection (a) is made as necessary to conduct an investigation of the report;(B)  a law enforcement officer as necessary to conduct a criminal investigation of the report described by Subsection (a); or(C)  a health care provider in an emergency situation, as determined necessary by the institution.(c)  A disclosure under Subsection (b) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.(d)  Information regarding an incident of sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, or stalking disclosed to a health care provider or other medical provider employed by a postsecondary educational institution is confidential and may be shared by the provider only with the victim's consent. The provider must provide aggregate data or other nonidentifying information regarding those incidents to the institution's Title IX coordinator.
Sec. 51.292.  COMPLIANCE.  (a)  If the coordinating board determines that a postsecondary educational institution is not in substantial compliance with this subchapter, the coordinating board may assess an administrative penalty against the institution in an amount not to exceed $2 million.  In determining the amount of the penalty, the coordinating board shall consider the nature of the violation and the number of students enrolled at the institution.(b)  If the coordinating board assesses an administrative penalty against a postsecondary educational institution under Subsection (a), the coordinating board shall provide to the institution written notice of the coordinating board's reasons for assessing the penalty.(c)  A postsecondary educational institution assessed an administrative penalty under Subsection (a) may appeal the penalty in the manner provided by Chapter 2001, Government Code.(d)  A postsecondary educational institution may not pay an administrative penalty assessed under Subsection (a) using state or federal money.(e)  An administrative penalty collected under this section shall be deposited to the credit of the sexual assault program fund established under Section 420.008, Government Code.(f)  The coordinating board shall annually submit to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over legislation concerning sexual assault at postsecondary educational institutions a report regarding compliance with this subchapter, including a summary of the postsecondary educational institutions found not to be in substantial compliance as provided by this section and any penalties assessed under this section during the preceding year.
SUBCHAPTER F. REQUIRED AND ELECTIVE COURSESSec. 51.301.  GOVERNMENT OR POLITICAL SCIENCE.  (a)  Every college and university receiving state support or state aid from public funds shall give a course of instruction in government or political science which includes consideration of the Constitution of the United States and the constitutions of the states, with special emphasis on that of Texas.  This course shall have a credit value of not less than six semester hours or its equivalent.  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for such a course.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or in part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by the student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(b)  The requirement of Subsection (a) that the required course must include special emphasis on the Texas Constitution does not apply to a degree granted on completion of an academic program offered by a medical and dental unit, as that term is defined by Section 61.003, to a student who is a member of the armed forces of the United States, including the reserves or national guard, if:(1)  the program is operated by the medical and dental unit under contract with the United States Army;(2)  the program requires less than two years of residency in this state;  and(3)  the principal participants in the program are military personnel stationed outside this state.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (a) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Subsection (d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  The American Way course authorized by Subsection (c)(2) must be designed to provide a foreign student with a familiarity and understanding of United States government and civic life and their sources, development, and character.  The course must concentrate on important texts, including the United States Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, on the works and contributions of influential authors, political and cultural leaders, and other important figures, and on important events and developments in United States history.  The course must cover important developments in human and civil rights, including the civil rights movement and the history of women's rights.  The course must cover the history and development of the State of Texas and its place in United States history and culture.  The course must consist of four semester credit hours, with one semester credit hour in practicum activities intended to provide the student with experience in the three branches of government through participation at the federal, state, or local level.  The course may not be taken for course credit by a student other than a student described by Subsection (c).(e)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.302.  AMERICAN OR TEXAS HISTORY.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), a college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds may not grant a baccalaureate degree or a lesser degree or academic certificate to any person unless the person has credit for six semester hours or its equivalent in American History.  A student is entitled to submit as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent in Texas History in partial satisfaction of this requirement.  The college or university may determine that a student has satisfied this requirement in whole or part on the basis of credit granted to the student by the college or university for a substantially equivalent course completed at another accredited college or university, or on the basis of the student's successful completion of an advanced standing examination administered on the conditions and under the circumstances common for the college or university's advanced standing examinations.  The college or university may grant as much as three semester hours of credit or its equivalent toward satisfaction of this requirement for substantially equivalent work completed by a student in the program of an approved senior R.O.T.C. unit.(c)  The governing board of a general academic teaching institution that offers a joint baccalaureate degree program under a contract with a foreign college or university may exempt a student enrolled in the joint degree program from the course requirement prescribed by Subsection (b) if the student:(1)  enrolled in the foreign college or university before enrolling in the joint degree program or is otherwise considered to be primarily a student of the foreign college or university; and(2)  successfully completes the American Way course described by Section 51.301(d) at the institution the student attends or, with the approval of that institution, at another general academic teaching institution that offers the course.(d)  A college or university receiving state support or state aid from public funds that does not offer at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History to undergraduate students shall enter into an agreement with another postsecondary educational institution to offer to the college or university's undergraduate students at least three semester credit hours or the equivalent in Texas History.
Sec. 51.3041.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall consider, in determining whether to award to a student course credit toward a degree or certificate offered by the institution for the student's completion of certain military training:(1)  any official military record presented to the institution by the student that:(A)  describes the substance of the training completed by the student; and(B)  verifies the student's successful completion of that training; and(2)  whether the substance of that training satisfies the purpose of the course for which the student seeks credit as described in the institution's course catalog.(c)  This section applies to a student who has completed certain military training and is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242.
Sec. 51.3042.  AWARD OF COURSE CREDIT FOR MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall award to an undergraduate student who is admitted to the institution, including a student who is readmitted under Section 51.9242, course credit for all physical education courses required by the institution for an undergraduate degree and for additional semester credit hours, not to exceed 12, that may be applied to satisfy any elective course requirements for the student's degree program for courses outside the student's major or minor if the student:(1)  graduated from a public or private high school accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; and(2)  is an honorably discharged former member of the armed forces of the United States who:(A)  completed at least two years of service in the armed forces; or(B)  was discharged because of a disability.(c)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from awarding additional course credit for a student's military service as the institution considers appropriate.(d)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's military service and of the student's military discharge status.
Sec. 51.305.  PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY TRAINING.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The coordinating board by rule shall:(1)  require a general academic teaching institution to offer training in personal financial literacy to provide students of the institution with the knowledge and skills necessary as self-supporting adults to make critical decisions relating to personal financial matters; and(2)  determine the topics to be covered by the training, which may include budgeting, credit cards, spending, saving, loan repayment and consolidation, taxes, retirement planning, insurance, and financing of health care and other benefits.(c)  The coordinating board by rule may provide for the training required under this section to be offered in an online course.(d)  Expired.
Sec. 51.309.  PAIN TREATMENT MEDICAL EDUCATION COURSE WORK.  (a)  Each medical school shall determine the extent to which pain treatment medical education course work is meeting the instructional elements described in Subsection (b) and is offered to all students enrolled in medical schools.(b)  Pain treatment medical education course work should include instruction in:(1)  pain assessment in adults, children, and special populations, including elderly and impaired individuals;(2)  pain anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology, and pharmacology of opioid and nonopioid analgesic drugs, including pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics;(3)  the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of drug administration, side effects, treatment outcome, and the outcome of behavioral and other psychological therapy for pain;(4)  the psychological, social, economic, and emotional impact of malignant and nonmalignant acute and chronic pain on patients;(5)  indications for and outcomes of anesthetic and neurosurgical pain-relieving techniques, including nerve blocks and neuroaugmentative and neuroablative techniques;  and(6)  the outcome of treatment of pain emanating from a damaged nervous system and neuropathic pain.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.02, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.332.  APPLICABILITY.  This subchapter does not apply to:(1)  a student who has graduated with an associate or baccalaureate degree from an institution of higher education;(2)  a student who transfers to an institution of higher education from a private or independent institution of higher education or an accredited out-of-state institution of higher education and who has satisfactorily completed college-level coursework;(3)  a student who is enrolled in a certificate program of one year or less at a public junior college, a public technical institute, or a public state college;(4)  a student who is serving on active duty as a member of:(A)  the armed forces of the United States; or(B)  the Texas National Guard;(5)  a student who is currently serving as and, for at least the three-year period preceding enrollment, has served as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States; or(6)  a student who on or after August 1, 1990, was honorably discharged, retired, or released from:(A)  active duty as a member of the armed forces of the United States or the Texas National Guard; or(B)  service as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.05, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.06, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.336.  DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may refer a student to developmental coursework, including basic academic skills education, as considered necessary by the institution to address a student's deficiencies in the student's readiness to perform freshman-level academic coursework, except that the institution may not require enrollment in developmental coursework with respect to a student previously determined under Section 51.338(d) or by any institution of higher education to have met college-readiness standards. (b)  An institution of higher education that requires a student to enroll in developmental coursework must offer a range of developmental coursework, including online coursework, or instructional support that includes the integration of technology to efficiently address the particular developmental needs of the student.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall develop and implement for developmental coursework, other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education, developmental education using a corequisite model under which a student concurrently enrolls in a developmental education course and a freshman-level course in the same subject area for each subject area for which the student is referred to developmental coursework.  Each institution shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the institution's students enrolled in developmental coursework other than adult basic education or basic academic skills education are enrolled in developmental coursework described by this subsection.(d)  If a student fails to satisfactorily complete a freshman-level course described by Subsection (c), the institution of higher education shall: (1)  review the plan developed for the student under Section 51.335(a) and, if necessary, work with the student to revise the plan; and(2)  offer to the student a range of competency-based education programs to assist the student in becoming ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework in the applicable subject area.(e)  An institution of higher education must base developmental coursework on research-based best practices that include the following components:(1)  assessment;(2)  differentiated placement and instruction;(3)  faculty development;(4)  support services;(5)  program evaluation;(6)  integration of technology with an emphasis on instructional support programs;(7)  non-course-based developmental education interventions; and(8)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), course pairing of developmental education courses with credit-bearing courses.(f)  To allow a student to complete any necessary developmental coursework in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, the board shall encourage institutions of higher education to offer various types of developmental coursework that address various levels of deficiency in readiness to perform college coursework for which course credit may be earned, as determined on the basis of assessments as described by Section 51.334.  The types of developmental coursework may include:(1)  course-based programs;(2)  non-course-based programs, such as advising programs;(3)  module format programs;(4)  competency-based education programs;(5)  basic academic skills education, if applicable to the student; and(6)  subject to the requirements of Subsection (c), programs under which the student is pairing or taking concurrently a developmental education course and another course in the same subject area for which course credit may be earned.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.07, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.08, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.338.  EXEMPTIONS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may exempt a non-degree-seeking or non-certificate-seeking student from the requirements of this subchapter.(b)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on the SAT or ACT is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  An exemption under this subsection is effective for the five-year period following the date a student takes the test and achieves the standard set by the board.(c)  A student who has achieved scores set by the board on the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The exemption is effective for the three-year period following the date a student takes the last assessment instrument for purposes of this subchapter and achieves the standard set by the board.  This subsection does not apply during any period for which the board designates the questions developed for end-of-course assessment instruments under Section 39.0233(a) as the primary assessment instrument under this subchapter, except that the three-year period described by this subsection remains in effect for students who qualify for an exemption under this subsection before that period.(d)  A student who has demonstrated the performance standard for college readiness as provided by Section 28.008 on the postsecondary readiness assessment instruments adopted under Section 39.0238 for Algebra II and English III, as that section existed before repeal by H.B. 4545, Acts of the 87th Legislature, Regular Session, 2021, is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to those content areas.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.(e)  A student who successfully completes a college preparatory course under Section 28.014 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter with respect to the content area of the course, provided that the student satisfies the requirements of Subsection (f) of this section.  The exemption is effective for the two-year period following the date the student graduates from high school.  The exemption applies only at the institution of higher education that partners with the school district in which the student is enrolled to provide the course, except that the commissioner of higher education by rule may determine the manner in which the exemption may be applied to institutions of higher education other than the partnering institution.(f)  A student receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) must enroll in a college-level course in the exempted content area during the student's first year of enrollment at an institution of higher education occurring after the student qualifies for the exemption. If the student earns a grade below a "C" for the course, the institution shall advise the student of non-course-based options for attaining college readiness, such as tutoring or accelerated learning.(g)  The board shall:(1)  collect and analyze data regarding the effectiveness of college preparatory courses provided under Section 28.014 in assisting students to become ready to perform freshman-level academic coursework, as measured by the rate at which students receiving an exemption under Subsection (e) successfully complete the course described by Subsection (f); and(2)  in November of each even-numbered year, submit a report of the board's findings to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education, and each institution of higher education and school district that offers a college preparatory course under Section 28.014.(h)  A student who has achieved a score set by the board on a high school equivalency examination administered under Section 7.111 is exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.  The commissioner of higher education by rule shall establish the period for which an exemption under this subsection is valid.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.09, eff. June 15, 2017.Amended by: Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1086 (H.B. 1891), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2019.Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 910 (H.B. 4545), Sec. 9, eff. June 16, 2021.
Sec. 51.340.  FUNDING.  (a)  The legislature shall appropriate money for approved non-degree-credit developmental courses, including basic academic skills education, except that legislative appropriations may not be used for developmental coursework taken by a student in excess of:(1)  for a general academic teaching institution:(A)  9 semester credit hours; or(B)  18 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages; and(2)  for a public junior college, public technical institute, or public state college:(A)  18 semester credit hours; or(B)  27 semester credit hours, if the developmental coursework is English for speakers of other languages.(b)  The board may develop formulas to supplement the funding of developmental academic programs by institutions of higher education, including formulas for supplementing the funding of non-course-based programs. The board may develop a performance funding formula by which institutions of higher education may receive additional funding for each student who completes the success initiative established under this subchapter and then successfully completes college coursework. The legislature may appropriate the money required to provide the additional funding under those formulas.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.11, eff. June 15, 2017.
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 820, Sec. 37(b), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1312 (S.B. 1031), Sec. 17, eff. September 1, 2007.Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 895 (H.B. 3), Sec. 61, eff. June 19, 2009.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 965 (H.B. 1244), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049 (S.B. 5), Sec. 6.01, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1183 (H.B. 3468), Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 62(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 63(a), eff. June 10, 2013.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 518 (H.B. 1054), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 638 (S.B. 1776), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2015.Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 6(a), eff. June 19, 2015.Transferred, redesignated and amended from Education Code, Section 51.3062 by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 842 (H.B. 2223), Sec. 1.15, eff. June 15, 2017.
Sec. 51.352.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS.  (a)  It is the policy of this state that the governing boards of institutions of higher education, being composed of lay members, shall exercise the traditional and time-honored role for such boards as their role has evolved in the United States and shall constitute the keystone of the governance structure.  In this regard each governing board:(1)  is expected to preserve institutional independence and to defend its right to manage its own affairs through its chosen administrators and employees;(2)  shall enhance the public image of each institution under its governance;(3)  shall interpret the community to the campus and interpret the campus to the community;(4)  shall nurture each institution under its governance to the end that each institution achieves its full potential within its role and mission;  and(5)  shall insist on clarity of focus and mission of each institution under its governance.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall provide the policy direction for each institution of higher education under its management and control.(c)  In making or confirming appointments to a governing board, the governor and senate shall ensure that the appointee has the background and experience suitable for performing the statutory responsibility of a member of the governing board.(d)  In addition to powers and duties specifically granted by this code or other law, each governing board shall:(1)  establish, for each institution under its control and management, goals consistent with the role and mission of the institution;(2)  appoint the chancellor or other chief executive officer of the system, if the board governs a university system;(3)  appoint the president or other chief executive officer of each institution under the board's control and management and evaluate the chief executive officer of each component institution and assist the officer in the achievement of performance goals;(4)  set campus admission standards consistent with the role and mission of the institution and considering the admission standards of similar institutions nationwide having a similar role and mission, as determined by the coordinating board;  and(5)  ensure that its formal position on matters of importance to the institutions under its governance is made clear to the coordinating board when such matters are under consideration by the coordinating board.(e)  Each member of a governing board has the legal responsibilities of a fiduciary in the management of funds under the control of institutions subject to the board's control and management.(f)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of that institution shall adopt a policy to enhance the transfer of students based on the recommendations of the permanent advisory committee under Section 51.3521 of this code.
Sec. 51.3521.  PERMANENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES.  (a)  Permanent advisory committees are established.(b)  Each committee consists of the president, or the president's designee, of each general academic teaching institution and of each public junior college within a 100-mile radius of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  Each committee shall biennially elect a presiding officer.(d)  Each committee may elect other officers.(e)  Each committee shall adopt rules to govern the time and place of meetings and the transaction of business.(f)  Each committee shall:(1)  periodically study regional higher education needs in this state;  and(2)  make recommendations to the governing boards of each general academic teaching institution and each public junior college represented regarding degree programs, core curricula, and joint faculty appointments to enhance the transfer of students and the coordinated working relationships between those institutions.
Sec. 51.3525.  RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNING BOARDS REGARDING DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION INITIATIVES.  (a)  In this section, "diversity, equity, and inclusion office" means an office, division, or other unit of an institution of higher education established for the purpose of:(1)  influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes in accordance with any applicable state and federal antidiscrimination laws;(2)  promoting differential treatment of or providing special benefits to individuals on the basis of race, color, or ethnicity;(3)  promoting policies or procedures designed or implemented in reference to race, color, or ethnicity, other than policies or procedures approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; or(4)  conducting trainings, programs, or activities designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation, other than trainings, programs, or activities developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall ensure that each unit of the institution:(1)  does not, except as required by federal law:(A)  establish or maintain a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(B)  hire or assign an employee of the institution or contract with a third party to perform the duties of a diversity, equity, and inclusion office;(C)  compel, require, induce, or solicit any person to provide a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement or give preferential consideration to any person based on the provision of a diversity, equity, and inclusion statement;(D)  give preference on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin to an applicant for employment, an employee, or a participant in any function of the institution; or(E)  require as a condition of enrolling at the institution or performing any institution function any person to participate in diversity, equity, and inclusion training, which:(i)  includes a training, program, or activity designed or implemented in reference to race, color, ethnicity, gender identity, or sexual orientation; and(ii)  does not include a training, program, or activity developed by an attorney and approved in writing by the institution's general counsel and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board for the sole purpose of ensuring compliance with any applicable court order or state or federal law; and(2)  adopts policies and procedures for appropriately disciplining, including by termination, an employee or contractor of the institution who engages in conduct in violation of Subdivision (1).(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed to limit or prohibit an institution of higher education or an employee of an institution of higher education from, for purposes of applying for a grant or complying with the terms of accreditation by an accrediting agency, submitting to the grantor or accrediting agency a statement that:(1)  highlights the institution's work in supporting:(A)  first-generation college students;(B)  low-income students; or(C)  underserved student populations; or(2)  certifies compliance with state and federal antidiscrimination laws.(d)  Subsection (b)(1) may not be construed to apply to:(1)  academic course instruction;(2)  scholarly research or a creative work by an institution of higher education's students, faculty, or other research personnel or the dissemination of that research or work;(3)  an activity of a student organization registered with or recognized by an institution of higher education;(4)  guest speakers or performers on short-term engagements;(5)  a policy, practice, procedure, program, or activity to enhance student academic achievement or postgraduate outcomes that is designed and implemented without regard to race, sex, color, or ethnicity;(6)  data collection; or(7)  student recruitment or admissions.(e)  An institution of higher education may not spend money appropriated to the institution for a state fiscal year until the governing board of the institution submits to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board a report certifying the board's compliance with this section during the preceding state fiscal year.(f)  In the interim between each regular session of the legislature, the governing board of each institution of higher education, or the board's designee, shall testify before the standing legislative committees with primary jurisdiction over higher education at a public hearing of the committee regarding the board's compliance with this section.(g)  The state auditor shall periodically conduct a compliance audit of each institution of higher education to determine whether the institution has spent state money in violation of this section.  The state auditor shall adopt a schedule by which the state auditor will conduct compliance audits under this subsection.  The schedule must ensure that each institution of higher education is audited at least once every four years.(h)  If the state auditor determines pursuant to a compliance audit conducted under Subsection (g) that an institution of higher education has spent state money in violation of this section, the institution:(1)  must cure the violation not later than the 180th day after the date on which the determination is made; and(2)  if the institution fails to cure the violation during the period described by Subdivision (1), is ineligible to receive formula funding increases, institutional enhancements, or exceptional items during the state fiscal biennium immediately following the state fiscal biennium in which the determination is made.(i)  A student or employee of an institution of higher education who is required to participate in training in violation of Subsection (b)(1)(E) may bring an action against the institution for injunctive or declaratory relief.(j)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in coordination with institutions of higher education, shall conduct a biennial study to identify the impact of the implementation of this section on the application rate, acceptance rate, matriculation rate, retention rate, grade point average, and graduation rate of students at institutions of higher education, disaggregated by race, sex, and ethnicity.  Not later than December 1 of each even-numbered year, the coordinating board shall submit to the legislature a report on the results of the study and any recommendations for legislative or other action.  This subsection expires September 1, 2029.
Sec. 51.355.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; UNIVERSITY SYSTEM BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit.(b)  The chancellor of each university system shall develop a uniform application form to be used by each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in the university system to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (f), not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit in a university system shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the chancellor of the university system.  From among those applicants, the chancellor shall select two or more applicants as the university system's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student governments and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the system for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the chancellor, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the system as described by this subsection.(d)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit in the university system and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution or unit for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution or unit for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution or unit for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution or unit in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution or unit for the following fall semester.(d-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(e)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the system for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the system, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(f)  The student government of the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit at which a current student regent was enrolled at the time of the student regent's appointment may not solicit applicants for the position of student regent for the next regular term of the position.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for a university system shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the chancellor of the system.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (d-1) from the president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.356.  NONVOTING STUDENT REGENT; INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS.  (a)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution that is not a part of a university system.(b)  In this section, "student government" means the representative student organization directly elected by the student body of a general academic teaching institution.(c)  The president of a general academic teaching institution shall develop a uniform application form to be used to solicit applicants for the position of student regent.(d)  Not later than November 1 of each year, the student government of the general academic teaching institution shall solicit applicants for appointment to the next regular term of the position of student regent.  Not later than January 1, from among the applications received by the student government, the student government shall select five applicants as the student government's recommendations for the position of student regent and send the applications of those applicants to the president of the institution.  From among those applicants, the president shall select two or more applicants as the institution's recommendations for the position of student regent and shall send the applications of those applicants to the governor not later than February 1.  The governor may request to review all applications for the position of student regent received by the student government and may request an applicant to submit additional information to the governor.  On June 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the governor shall appoint one of the applicants to serve as the student regent for the institution for a one-year term expiring on the next May 31.  The governor is not required to appoint an applicant recommended by the president, but may not appoint a student regent who did not submit an application to the student government of the institution as described by this subsection.(e)  To be eligible for appointment as student regent, a person must be enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student in the general academic teaching institution and be in good academic standing as determined by the institution at the time of appointment.  The person must remain enrolled at the institution throughout the person's term as a student regent.  For purposes of this subsection, a person is considered to be enrolled in an institution for a summer term if the person was enrolled in the institution for the preceding semester and:(1)  is registered or preregistered at the institution for the following fall semester;(2)  if the person has not completed the person's degree program, is eligible to continue the degree program at the institution in the following fall semester; or(3)  if the person completed a degree program in the preceding semester, is admitted to another degree program at the institution for the following fall semester.(e-1)  Throughout a student regent's term, the student regent must maintain a grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale.  The president of the institution in which the student regent is enrolled shall notify the governor if the student regent fails to maintain the qualifications required by this section.(f)  A student regent is not a member of the board of regents of the institution for which the student regent is appointed.  A student regent has the same powers and duties as the members of the board of regents of the institution, including the right to attend and participate in meetings of the board of regents, except that the student regent:(1)  may not vote on any matter before the board or make or second any motion before the board; and(2)  is not counted in determining whether a quorum exists for a meeting of the board or in determining the outcome of any vote of the board.(g)  A vacancy in the position of student regent for an institution shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the governor in consultation with the president of the institution.(h)  On receiving notice under Subsection (e-1) from the president of the institution that the student regent has failed to maintain the qualifications required by this section, the governor shall declare the position of student regent vacant and as soon as practicable fill the vacancy in the manner prescribed by Subsection (g).(i)  A student regent serves without compensation but is entitled to be reimbursed for the actual expenses incurred by the student regent in attending the meetings of the board of regents, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board of regents.
Sec. 51.402.  REPORT OF INSTITUTIONAL AND ACADEMIC DUTIES.  (a)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, in cooperation with governing boards, institutional officials, and faculty representatives of general academic institutions of higher education, shall develop and recommend general policies and standard reports for academic faculty workloads and services.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education in the state shall adopt rules and regulations concerning faculty academic workloads.  In adopting rules under this subsection, each institution shall recognize that classroom teaching, basic and applied research, and professional development are important elements of faculty academic workloads by giving appropriate weight to each activity when determining the standards for faculty academic workload.  An institution may give the same or different weight to each activity and to other activities recognized by the institution as important elements of faculty academic workloads. (c)  Within 30 days of the end of each academic year, the institution shall file with its governing board a report, by department, of the academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty during the nine-month academic year, showing evidence of compliance with requirements established by the governing board.  The report of academic duties and services performed by each member of the faculty shall indicate all appointments held by the faculty member in the employing institution, the salary paid to each appointment, the percent of time of each appointment, and the source of funds from which salary payments were made.  Teaching responsibilities in each workload standard shall be in proportion to the portion of salary paid from funds appropriated for instructional purposes.(d)  The institutional head of each higher education institution shall designate the officer of his staff who will monitor workloads, prepare and review appropriate workload reports, and submit the reports to the institutional head for his certification or approval and comments as may be appropriate.
Sec. 51.403.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR COURSES; REPORTS OF STUDENT ENROLLMENT AND ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE.  (a)  All higher education institutions of this state shall offer only such courses and teach such classes as are economically justified in the considered judgment of the appropriate governing board.(b)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1049, Sec. 9.01(a)(2), eff. September 1, 2011.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(13), eff. June 17, 2011.(e)  Under guidelines established by the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, and the State Board of Education, postsecondary institutions shall report student performance during the first year enrolled after graduation from high school to the high school or junior college last attended.  This report shall include, but not be limited to, appropriate student test scores, a description of developmental courses required, and the student's grade point average.  Appropriate safeguards for student privacy shall be included in the rules for implementation of this subsection.
Sec. 51.4032.  ANNUAL REPORT OF PARTICIPATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION.  Not later than December 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution and medical and dental unit as defined in  Section 61.003 shall provide to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and shall publish on the institution's website a report describing the composition of the institution's entering class of students.  The report must include a demographic breakdown of the class, including a breakdown by race, ethnicity, economic status, and high school class standing.  A report submitted by a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit as defined in Section 61.003 must include separate demographic breakdowns of the students admitted under Sections 51.803, 51.804, and 51.805 and a description of any plans, policies, or programs developed or implemented by the institution to recruit and retain students from underrepresented groups such as racial or ethnic minority groups.
Sec. 51.4033.  REPORT OF NONTRANSFERABLE CREDIT.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each general academic teaching institution shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report describing any courses in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board for which a student who transfers to the institution from another institution of higher education is not granted:(1)  academic credit at the receiving institution; or(2)  if the student has declared a major and has not changed majors, academic credit toward the student's major at the receiving institution.(b)  A report required by this section must indicate:(1)  the course name and type;(2)  which institution of higher education provided academic credit for the course; and(3)  the reason why the receiving institution did not grant academic credit for the course as described by Subsection (a), including whether the institution complied with the dispute resolution process under Section 61.826.
Sec. 51.4034.  REPORT OF COURSES TAKEN AT JUNIOR COLLEGES.  (a)  Not later than May 1 of each year and in the form prescribed by the coordinating board, each public junior college shall provide to the coordinating board and the legislature a report on courses taken by students who, during the preceding academic year, transferred to a general academic teaching institution or earned an associate degree at the college.(b)  A report required by this section must include the total number of:(1)  courses attempted and completed at the college, including the total number of semester credit hours for those courses, disaggregated by whether the course is in:(A)  the Workforce Education Course Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board; or(B)  the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(2)  courses attempted and completed at the college that are not in the recommended core curriculum developed by the coordinating board under Section 61.822; and(3)  dual credit courses, including courses for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008, attempted and completed at the college.
Sec. 51.406.  EXPIRATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  In this section, "university system" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To the extent that any of the following laws require reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education, a university system or institution of higher education is not required to make the report on or after September 1, 2013, unless legislation enacted by the 83rd Legislature that becomes law expressly requires the institution or system to make the report:(1)  Section 7.109;(2)  Section 33.083;(3)  Section 59.07;(4)  Section 130.251;(5)  Section 325.007, Government Code;(6)  Section 669.003, Government Code;(7)  Section 2005.007, Government Code;(8)  Section 2054.097, Government Code;(9)  Chapter 2114, Government Code; and(10)  Section 2205.041, Government Code.(c)  A rule or policy of a state agency, including the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in effect on June 1, 2011, that requires reporting by a university system or an institution of higher education has no effect on or after September 1, 2013, unless the rule or policy is affirmatively and formally readopted before that date by formal administrative rule published in the Texas Register and adopted in compliance with Chapter 2001, Government Code.  This subsection does not apply to:(1)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is listed in Subsection (b);(2)  a rule or policy for which the authorizing statute is repealed on or before September 1, 2013, by legislation enacted by the legislature that becomes law; or(3)  a report required under any of the following provisions:(A)  Article 59.06(g)(1), Code of Criminal Procedure;(B)  Section 51.005;(C)  Section 51.0051;(D)  Subchapter F-1 of this chapter;(E)  Section 51.402;(F)  Section 56.039;(G)  Section 61.059;(H)   Section 62.098;(I)  Section 411.187(b), Government Code;(J)  Subchapter C, Chapter 606, Government Code;(K)  Subchapter E, Chapter 815, Government Code; or(L)  Chapter 1551, Insurance Code.(d)  At least every five years, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall reevaluate its rules and policies to ensure the continuing need for the data requests the coordinating board imposes on university systems, institutions of higher education, or private or independent institutions of higher education.  The coordinating board shall consult with those entities to identify unnecessary data requests and shall eliminate data requests identified as unnecessary from its rules and policies.  In this subsection, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(e)  This section does not apply to a request for information by the state auditor.
SUBCHAPTER I.  TEXTBOOKSSec. 51.451.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "College bookstore" means a bookstore that is:(A)  operated by an institution of higher education; or(B)  in a contractual relationship or otherwise affiliated with an institution of higher education.(2)  "Custom textbook" means a textbook that is compiled by a publisher at the direction of a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education and that may include items such as selections from original instructor materials, previously copyrighted publisher materials, copyrighted third-party works, or elements unique to a specific institution.(3)  "Faculty member" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.917.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(4-a)  "Open educational resource" means a teaching, learning, or research resource that is in the public domain or has been released under an intellectual property license that permits the free use, adaptation, and redistribution of the resource by any person.  The term may include full course curricula, course materials, modules, textbooks, media, assessments, software, and any other tools, materials, or techniques, whether digital or otherwise, used to support access to knowledge.(4-b)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Supplemental material," with respect to a textbook, means instructional material developed to accompany the textbook, including printed materials, computer disks, website access, and electronically distributed materials, other than material that is part of an integrated textbook.(6)  "Textbook" means a book published primarily for instruction in connection with a particular course or courses offered to postsecondary students by an institution of higher education.  The term includes any edition of a textbook or set of textbooks and any item considered supplemental specifically to the textbook, regardless of whether the textbook and supplemental item are sold together or separately.(7)  "Textbook bundle" means a textbook that is combined with other instructional material, such as another textbook or additional printed material, a computer disk, website access, or electronically distributed material, and that is packaged or otherwise offered for sale with that instructional material at a single price.  The term does not include a textbook that is combined with other instructional material if that material in its entirety is:(A)  required to be offered for sale with or as part of the textbook, according to a third-party contractual agreement; or(B)  interrelated with the content of the textbook to such a degree that any separation of the material from the textbook would render the textbook unusable for its intended purpose.
Sec. 51.452.  PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED TEXTBOOKS.  (a)  Each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  for each semester or academic term, compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule a list of the required and recommended textbooks that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each textbook:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any; and(F)  whether the textbook is an open educational resource;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (b), at the time required by Subsection (c)(2):(A)  publish the textbook list with the course schedule on the institution's Internet website and with any course schedule the institution provides in hard copy format to the students of the institution; and(B)  make that information available to college bookstores and other bookstores that generally serve the students of the institution; and(4)  except as provided by Subsection (b), as soon as practicable after the information becomes available disseminate as required by Subdivision (3) specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and textbook list.(b)  A private or independent institution of higher education is not required to publish a textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(3)(A) or any revisions to that textbook list as described by Subsection (a)(4) if a college bookstore publishes that list and any revisions to that list on the bookstore's Internet website on behalf of the institution at the appropriate times required by this section.(c)  To allow for timely placement of textbook orders by students, each private or independent institution of higher education shall:(1)  establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and textbook list required by Subsection (a); and(2)  disseminate the institution's course schedule and textbook list as required by Subsection (a)(3) as soon as practicable after the institution has compiled the schedule and list but not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for the semester or other academic term for which the schedule and list are compiled.(d)  If a private or independent institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a textbook list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.
Sec. 51.4521.  PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS: DISSEMINATION OF COURSE SCHEDULE AND LIST OF REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED COURSE MATERIALS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Course material" means a textbook, supplemental material, or open educational resource.(2)  "Institution of higher education," notwithstanding Section 51.451, has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Not later than the 30th day before the first day that classes are conducted for each semester or academic term, each institution of higher education shall:(1)  compile a course schedule indicating each course offered by the institution for the semester or term to postsecondary students;(2)  with respect to each course, include with the schedule, or provide in a prominent location in the schedule a link to an Internet website, such as the Internet website of a college bookstore, that contains, a list of the required and recommended course materials that specifies, to the extent practicable, the following information for each course material, as applicable:(A)  the retail price;(B)  the author;(C)  the publisher or provider;(D)  the most recent copyright date;(E)  the International Standard Book Number assigned, if any;(F)  whether the course material is an open educational resource; and(G)  any associated fee or charge, such as a technology cost, library use cost, or printing or publication fee;(3)  in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to:(A)  the full amount of any fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution, including a statement regarding whether the fee or charge is included in the cost of tuition;(B)  if a course material is in a primarily electronic format, the terms under which the publisher or provider collects and uses student data obtained through a student's use of the course material; and(C)  any provision that allows the student to opt out of a fee or charge described by Paragraph (A); and(4)  make information regarding the cost of course materials on the course materials list under Subdivision (2) available to college bookstores and other providers of course materials that serve the students of the institution.(c)  As soon as practicable after the information becomes available, each institution of higher education shall make available specific information regarding any revisions to the institution's course schedule and course materials list.(d)  An institution of higher education shall itemize a fee or charge for course materials assessed by the institution or another entity under an agreement with the institution separately from any other fees or charges assessed for a course or course section in the institution's billing to the student.  This subsection may not be construed to prohibit an institution of higher education from including the cost of course materials as part of the institution's tuition.(e)  Any agreement between an institution of higher education and an entity under which the institution agrees to assess or allows the entity to assess a fee or charge for course materials to students enrolled at the institution is public information under Chapter 552, Government Code.(f)  To allow for timely placement of course material orders by students, each institution of higher education shall establish a deadline by which faculty members must submit information to be included in the course schedule and course materials list required by Subsection (b).(g)  If an institution of higher education or a college bookstore publishes a course materials list with a course schedule on an Internet website that provides a search function, the institution or bookstore must:(1)  ensure that the search function permits a search based on whether a course or section of a course requires or recommends only open educational resources; or(2)  provide a searchable list of courses and sections of courses that require or recommend only open educational resources.(h)  If an institution of higher education designates in the institution's course schedule certain courses or sections of courses as having low course material costs or a similar designation, the institution shall, in a prominent location in the schedule, state or provide an Internet website link to the criteria for that designation.(i)  This section may not be construed to affect any authority granted to a faculty member by an institution of higher education to select course materials for courses taught by the faculty member.
Sec. 51.454.  TEXTBOOK PUBLISHERS: AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO FACULTY CONCERNING TEXTBOOK PRICES, REVISIONS, AND COPYRIGHTS.  (a)  When a textbook publisher provides information regarding a textbook or supplemental material other than an open educational resource to a faculty member or other person in charge of selecting course materials at an institution of higher education, the publisher shall also provide to the faculty member or other person written information that includes:(1)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material available to a college bookstore or other bookstore that generally serves the students of the institution and, if applicable, to the public;(2)  the copyright dates of the current and three preceding editions of the textbook;(3)  a description of any substantial content revisions made between the current edition of the textbook or supplemental material and the most recent preceding edition of the textbook or material, including the addition of new chapters, new material covering additional time periods, new themes, or new subject matter;(4)  information as to whether the textbook or supplemental material is available in other formats, such as a paperback or unbound version; and(5)  the price at which the publisher would make the textbook or supplemental material in any alternative format available to a bookstore described by Subdivision (1) and, if applicable, to the public.(b)  A textbook publisher shall comply with this section with respect to a custom textbook only to the extent reasonably practicable.
SUBCHAPTER O. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICIESSec. 51.680.  REVIEW BY COMMISSIONER OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The commissioner of higher education, by December 31, 1987, shall review the intellectual property policies of institutions of higher education that were filed with the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, pursuant to Senate Concurrent Resolution 92 of the 69th Texas Legislature.  In this review, the commissioner shall determine, as a ministerial duty, without regard to the substance of the content thereof, whether the intellectual property policies address as a minimum standard the following matters:(1)  disclosure of scientific and technological developments, including inventions, discoveries, trade secrets, and computer software;(2)  institutional review of scientific and technological disclosures, including consideration of ownership and appropriate legal protection;(3)  guidelines for licensing scientific and technological developments;(4)  clear identification of ownership and licensing responsibilities for each class of intellectual property;(5)  royalty participation by inventors and the institution;  and(6)  equity and management participation on the part of the inventor or inventors in business entities that utilize technology created at the institution of higher education.(b)  No later than January 31, 1988, the commissioner of higher education shall inform institutions of higher education whether their intellectual property policies meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a). Thereafter, an institution of higher education may file or post on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public policies amended to overcome any failure to meet the standards.  The commissioner shall within a reasonable time after receiving an amended policy inform the submitting institution whether it meets the standards.(c)  It is a policy of the state that each institution of higher education shall at all times have a current copy of its intellectual property policies that meet the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) posted on the institution's website on the Internet in a manner available to the public.  The commissioner of higher education shall establish procedures for the monitoring of this policy of the state.(d)  Institutions of higher education not having an intellectual property policy meeting the minimum standards set out in Subsection (a) of this section by August 31, 1988, shall not receive funds under any state-run competitive research or advanced technology funding programs.
SUBCHAPTER P. FUND FOR THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCESSec. 51.701.  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.  The legislature finds that:(1)  strength in the manufacturing sector is critical to the United States' and Texas' international competitive position, as well as to the national security.  Manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier of any industrial sector, contributing to economic growth and personal wealth.  High technology manufacturing has the highest economic multiplier among manufacturing sectors;(2)  the health of the manufacturing sector is critical for economic growth in Texas.  Texas, as a primary producer of raw materials, finds itself positioned to benefit tremendously from improvement and development of its manufacturing capabilities, even while the Texas economy suffers the consequences of having depended too heavily on production of raw materials alone;  and(3)  manufacturing industry sales growth and productivity increases have been shown to move in direct relation to the performance of research and development by the industry.
SUBCHAPTER R. EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY CENTERSec. 51.751.  CREATION AND OPERATION.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Center is created as a consortium of universities.  Each public senior college or university in the state shall participate in the Educational Economic Policy Center at the request of the governor.  The center shall represent business, finance, public policy, education, and other appropriate disciplines.(b)  The center shall examine the efficiency of the public school system and the effectiveness of instructional methods and curricular programs and promote the use of successful methods and programs.  The center shall monitor and evaluate the implementation of the accountability system under Chapters 39 and 39A.(c)  The center may be funded by donations, grants, and legislative appropriations.  The office of the governor may receive grants and donations for the purposes of this subchapter.(d)  The center may assist the legislature with education policy studies related to the purposes of the center on approval of the governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker.  The center may participate in collaborative studies with foundations or organizations within or outside the state.
Sec. 51.752.  EDUCATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY COMMITTEE.  (a)  The Educational Economic Policy Committee is created as the primary policy-making body of the Educational Economic Policy Center.  The committee shall study the elements of a quality educational system to:(1)  improve the management and productivity of the public education system to meet the demands of the twenty-first century;(2)  provide greater accountability to the taxpayers of the state;  and(3)  improve the state's ability to compete in education and to compete economically with other states and nations.(b)  The committee is composed of nine members.  The governor, lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives shall each appoint two members, only one of whom may be a board member or employee of a public school district, college, or university.  Those appointees shall include persons in the private sector who have an interest in improving public education.  In addition, the governor shall appoint three members who serve on the boards of regents representing the universities or systems participating in the center.(c)  Members of the committee serve two-year staggered terms.(d)  The governor shall appoint one member of the committee as the chairman.(e)  Members shall not receive salaries but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending meetings of the committee.(f)  State agencies shall cooperate with and assist the center at the committee's request.(g)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1203 , Sec. 21(1), eff. September 1, 2015.(h)  If the legislature fails to appropriate funds for the operation of the Educational Economic Policy Center, the Legislative Budget Board shall perform the duties of the committee under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.762.  COMMON ADMISSION APPLICATION FORMS.  (a)  The board, with the assistance of high school counselors and an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, public technical institutes, and private or independent institutions of higher education, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit freshman-level students:(1)  shall adopt by rule:(A)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to a general academic teaching institution;(B)  an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(C)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education; and(2)  may adopt by rule a printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a freshman student to an institution of higher education that admits freshman-level students, other than a general academic teaching institution.(b)  The board, with the assistance of an advisory committee composed of representatives of general academic teaching institutions, junior college districts, public state colleges, and public technical institutes, and with the consultation of all institutions of higher education that admit undergraduate transfer students, may adopt by rule:(1)  a common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to a general academic teaching institution;(2)  an electronic or printed format common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as an undergraduate transfer student to an institution of higher education that admits undergraduate transfer students, other than a general academic teaching institution; and(3)  if the board determines that adoption of the form would be cost-effective for nursing schools, an electronic common admission application form for use by a person seeking admission as a transfer student to an undergraduate nursing education program at an institution of higher education.(b-1)  An electronic common admission application form adopted under this section must include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  In addition to information required to determine the residency status of the applicant and information relating to the use of the form at each institution, the board shall include on each application form adopted under this section information that the board considers appropriate.(d)  The board shall attempt to ensure as much uniformity in the forms adopted under this section as possible, regardless of the category of institution for which the forms are adopted.(e)  The board shall publicize in both electronic and printed formats the availability of a form adopted under this section.(f)  The board shall ensure that copies of the freshman common admission application forms and information for the use of the forms are available in electronic format for distribution to the appropriate personnel at each public high school in this state.(g)  The board shall make a form adopted under this section available to the public electronically by the Internet or other commonly used telecommunications media and may contract with an institution of higher education or other provider to satisfy this requirement.(h)  An applicant may file, and each institution of higher education shall accept, an application for admission as an entering freshman or undergraduate transfer student that uses the appropriate form adopted under this section.  The form used to apply to a general academic teaching institution may be filed in either electronic or printed format.  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application using a form adopted under this section.(i)  In addition to other information considered appropriate by the board, the board by rule shall require each institution to collect information regarding gender, ethnicity, and date of birth as part of the application process and report this information to the board.(j)  In adopting a form under this section, the board shall ensure that an applicant may indicate on the form the applicant's consent to an institution of higher education to which the applicant submits an application for admission to a particular degree program using the form to, if the institution denies the applicant admission to that degree program, provide the applicant's application to other institutions of higher education that offer the degree program.
Sec. 51.763.  ELECTRONIC ADMISSION APPLICATION FORM FOR UNIVERSITY SYSTEMS.  (a)  The governing board of a university system shall adopt a common admission application form consistent with this subchapter to be used by any person seeking freshman or undergraduate transfer admission to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system.(b)  The form must:(1)  allow each applicant to:(A)  apply electronically to one or more of the general academic teaching institutions within the university system; and(B)  indicate preferences for admission between those institutions; and(2)  include a prominent link to the electronic tools or platforms developed by the board under Section 61.09022.(c)  A general academic teaching institution is not prohibited from requiring an applicant to submit additional information within a reasonable time after the institution has received an application under this section.
SUBCHAPTER T. CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTSSec. 51.776.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Architect" means an individual registered as an architect under Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(2)  "Board" means the governing body of an institution.(3)  "Contractor" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for constructing, rehabilitating, altering, or repairing all or part of the facility at the contracted price.(4)  "Engineer" means an individual licensed as an engineer under Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.(5)  "Facility" means real property, including buildings and associated structures and improved or unimproved land.(6)  "Fee" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means the payment a construction manager receives for its overhead and profit in performing its services.(7)  "General conditions" in the context of a contract for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility means on-site management, administrative personnel, insurance, bonds, equipment, utilities, and incidental work, including minor field labor and materials.(8)  "Institution" means an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, other than a public junior college.
Sec. 51.7761.  AGREEMENT WITH COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ORGANIZATION.  (a) In this section, "public work contract" means a contract for constructing, altering, or repairing a public building or carrying out or completing any public work.(b)  An institution awarding a public work contract funded with state money, including the issuance of debt guaranteed by this state, may not:(1)  prohibit, require, discourage, or encourage a person bidding on the public work contract, including a contractor or subcontractor, from entering into or adhering to an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  discriminate against a person  described by Subdivision (1) based on the person's involvement in the agreement, including the person's:(A)  status or lack of status as a party to the agreement; or(B)  willingness or refusal to enter into the agreement.(c)  This section may not be construed to:(1)  prohibit activity protected by the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.), including entering into an agreement with a collective bargaining organization relating to the project; or(2)  permit conduct prohibited under the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. Section 151 et seq.).
Sec. 51.780.  DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Design-build contract" means a single contract with a design-build firm for the design and construction of a facility.(2)  "Design-build firm" means a partnership, corporation, or other legal entity or team that includes an engineer or architect and builder qualified to engage in building construction in Texas.(3)  "Design criteria package" means a set of documents that provides sufficient information to permit a design-build firm to prepare a response to an institution's request for qualifications and any additional information requested, including criteria for selection. The design criteria package must specify criteria the institution considers necessary to describe the project and may include, as appropriate, the legal description of the site, survey information concerning the site, interior space requirements, special material requirements, material quality standards, conceptual criteria for the project, special equipment requirements, cost or budget estimates, time schedules, quality assurance and quality control requirements, site development requirements, applicable codes and ordinances, provisions for utilities, parking requirements, or any other requirement, as applicable.(b)  An institution may use the design-build method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a design-build firm, the contracting institution and the design-build firm shall follow the procedures provided by Subsections (c)-(k).(c)  The board may designate an engineer or architect independent of the design-build firm to act as its representative for the duration of the work on the facility.  If the board's engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, any engineer or architect designated shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(d)  The institution shall prepare a request for qualifications that includes general information on the project site, project scope, budget, special systems, selection criteria, and other information that may assist potential design-build firms in submitting proposals for the project.  The institution shall also prepare the design criteria package that includes more detailed information on the project.  If the preparation of the design criteria package requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, those services shall be provided in accordance with the applicable law.(e)  The board or its representative shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board or its representative shall evaluate statements of qualifications and select a design-build firm in two phases:(1)  In phase one, the board or its representative shall prepare a request for qualifications and evaluate each offeror's experience, technical competence, and capability to perform, the past performance of the offeror's team and members of the team, and other appropriate factors submitted by the team or firm in response to the request for qualifications, except that cost-related or price-related evaluation factors are not permitted.  Each offeror must certify to the board that each engineer or architect that is a member of its team was selected based on demonstrated competence and qualifications in the manner provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The board or its representative shall qualify a maximum of five offerors to submit additional information and, if the board or its representative chooses, to interview for final selection.(2)  In phase two, the board or its representative shall evaluate the information submitted by the offerors on the basis of the selection criteria stated in the request for qualifications and the results of any interview.  The board or its representative may request additional information regarding demonstrated competence and qualifications, considerations of the safety and long-term durability of the project, the feasibility of implementing the project as proposed, the ability of the offeror to meet schedules, costing methodology, or other factors as appropriate.  The board or its representative may not require offerors to submit detailed engineering or architectural designs as part of the proposal.  The board or its representative shall rank each proposal submitted on the basis of the criteria specified in the request for qualifications.  The board or its representative shall select the design-build firm that submits the proposal offering the best value for the institution on the basis of the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluations.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the institution shall, formally and in writing, end all negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(g)  Following selection of a design-build firm under Subsection (f), that firm's engineers or architects shall complete the design, submitting all design elements for review and determination of scope compliance by the institution's engineer or architect before or concurrently with construction.(h)  An engineer shall have responsibility for compliance with the engineering design requirements and all other applicable requirements of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code.  An architect shall have responsibility for compliance with the requirements of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code.(i)  The institution shall provide or contract for, independently of the design-build firm, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The institution shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(j)  The design-build firm shall supply a signed and sealed set of construction documents for the project to the institution at the conclusion of construction.(k)  A payment or performance bond is not required for, and may not provide coverage for, the portion of a design-build contract under this section that includes design services only.  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time a design-build contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution shall each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as specified in the design criteria package.  The design-build firm shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the design-build firm executes the contract unless the design-build firm furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the design-build firm will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.781.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AGENT.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-agent method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-agent, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-agent is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that provides consultation to the institution regarding construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of the facility.  An institution using the construction manager-agent method may, under the contract between the institution and the construction manager-agent, require the construction manager-agent to provide administrative personnel, equipment necessary to perform duties under this section, and on-site management and other services specified in the contract.  A construction manager-agent represents the institution in a fiduciary capacity.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-agent, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer or architect may not serve, alone or in combination with another person, as the construction manager-agent unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-agent under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  A board shall select a construction manager-agent on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications in the same manner as provided for the selection of engineers or architects under Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  A board using the construction manager-agent method shall procure, in accordance with applicable law and in any manner authorized by this chapter, a general contractor, trade contractors, or subcontractors who will serve as the prime contractor for their specific portion of the work.(f)  The board or the construction manager-agent shall procure in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, all of the testing of construction materials engineering, the inspection services, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.
Sec. 51.782.  CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES:  CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AT-RISK.  (a)  An institution may use the construction manager-at-risk method for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility.  In using that method and in entering into a contract for the services of a construction manager-at-risk, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  A construction manager-at-risk is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity that assumes the risk for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair of a facility at the contracted price as a general contractor and provides consultation to the institution regarding construction during and after the design of the facility.(c)  Before or concurrently with selecting a construction manager-at-risk, the board shall select or designate an engineer or architect who shall prepare the construction documents for the project and who has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  The institution's engineer, architect, or construction manager-agent for a project may not serve, alone or in combination with another, as the construction manager-at-risk unless the engineer or architect is hired to serve as the construction manager-at-risk under a separate or concurrent procurement conducted in accordance with this subchapter.  This subsection does not prohibit the institution's engineer or architect from providing customary construction phase services under the engineer's or architect's original professional service agreement in accordance with applicable licensing laws.(d)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the construction manager-at-risk, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code.(e)  The board shall select the construction manager-at-risk in either a one-step or two-step process.  The board shall prepare a request for proposals, in the case of a one-step process, or a request for qualifications, in the case of a two-step process, that includes general information on the project site, project scope, schedule, selection criteria, estimated budget, and the time and place for receipt of proposals or qualifications, as applicable, a statement as to whether the selection process is a one-step or two-step process, and other information that may assist the board in its selection of a construction manager-at-risk.  The board shall state the selection criteria in the request for proposals or qualifications, as applicable.  The selection criteria may include the offeror's experience, past performance, safety record, proposed personnel and methodology, and other appropriate factors that demonstrate the capability of the construction manager-at-risk.  If a one-step process is used, the board may request, as part of the offeror's proposal, proposed fees and prices for fulfilling the general conditions.  If a two-step process is used, the board may not request fees or prices in step one.  In step two, the board may request that five or fewer offerors, selected solely on the basis of qualifications, provide additional information, including the construction manager-at-risk's proposed fee and its price for fulfilling the general conditions.(f)  The board shall publish the request for qualifications in a manner prescribed by the board.(g)  At each step, the board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors.  At the appropriate step, the board shall also read aloud the fees and prices, if any, stated in each proposal as the proposal is opened.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals, the board or its representative shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the criteria set forth in the request for proposals.(h)  The board or its representative shall select the offeror that submits the proposal that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board or its representative shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  If the board or its representative is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the selected offeror, the board or its representative shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to negotiate with the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or negotiations with all ranked offerors end.(i)  A construction manager-at-risk shall publicly advertise, in the manner prescribed by the institution, and receive bids or proposals from trade contractors or subcontractors for the performance of all major elements of the work other than general conditions work.  A construction manager-at-risk may seek to perform major elements of the work itself if the construction manager-at-risk submits its bid or proposal for that work in the same manner as all other trade contractors or subcontractors and if the board determines that the construction manager-at-risk's bid or proposal provides the best value for the institution.  If no satisfactory bid or proposal for a major element of the work is received in the time allowed, the board may negotiate directly with the construction manager-at-risk for performance of that work.  The board may negotiate directly with the manager-at-risk for the performance of minor elements of the work that are not included in major work packages.(j)  The construction manager-at-risk and the board or its representative shall review all trade contractor or subcontractor bids or proposals in a manner that does not disclose the contents of the bid or proposal during the selection process to a person not employed by the construction manager-at-risk, engineer, architect, or institution.  All bids or proposals shall be made public after the award of the contract or within seven days after the date of final selection of bids and proposals, whichever is later.(k)  If the construction manager-at-risk reviews, evaluates, and recommends to the board a bid or proposal from a trade contractor or subcontractor but the board requires another bid or proposal to be accepted, the institution shall compensate the construction manager-at-risk by a change in price, time, or guaranteed maximum cost for any additional cost and risk that the construction manager-at-risk may incur because of the board's requirement that another bid or proposal be accepted.(l)  If a selected trade contractor or subcontractor defaults in the performance of its work or fails to execute a subcontract after being selected in accordance with this section, the construction manager-at-risk may, without advertising, itself fulfill the contract requirements or select a replacement trade contractor or subcontractor to fulfill the contract requirements.(m)  If a fixed contract amount or guaranteed maximum price has not been determined at the time the contract is awarded, the penal sums of the performance and payment bonds delivered to the institution must each be in an amount equal to the project budget, as set forth in the request for qualifications.  The construction manager shall deliver the bonds not later than the 10th day after the date the construction manager executes the contract unless the construction manager furnishes a bid bond or other financial security acceptable to the institution to ensure that the construction manager will furnish the required performance and payment bonds when a guaranteed maximum price is established.
Sec. 51.783.  SELECTING CONTRACTOR FOR CONSTRUCTION SERVICES THROUGH COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS.  (a)  In selecting a contractor for construction, rehabilitation, alteration, or repair services for a facility through competitive sealed proposals, a board shall follow the procedures prescribed by this section.(b)  The board shall select or designate an engineer or architect to prepare construction documents for the project.  The selected or designated engineer or architect has full responsibility for complying with Chapter 1001 or 1051, Occupations Code, as applicable.  If the engineer or architect is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the engineer or architect on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.(c)  The board shall provide or contract for, independently of the contractor, the inspection services, the testing of construction materials engineering, and the verification testing services necessary for acceptance of the facility by the institution.  The board shall select those services for which it contracts in accordance with Section 2254.004, Government Code, and shall identify them in the request for proposals.(d)  The board shall prepare a request for competitive sealed proposals that includes construction documents, selection criteria, estimated budget, project scope, schedule, and other information that contractors may require to respond to the request.  The board shall state in the request for proposals the selection criteria that will be used in selecting the successful offeror.(e)  The board shall publish notice of the request for proposals in a manner prescribed by the board.(f)  The board shall receive, publicly open, and read aloud the names of the offerors and, if any are required to be stated, all prices stated in each proposal.  Within 45 days after the date of opening the proposals the board shall evaluate and rank each proposal submitted in relation to the published selection criteria.(g)  The board shall select the offeror that offers the best value for the institution based on the published selection criteria and on its ranking evaluation.  The board shall first attempt to negotiate with the selected offeror a contract.  The board and its engineer or architect may discuss with the selected offeror options for a scope or time modification and any price change associated with the modification. If the board is unable to reach a contract with the selected offeror, the board shall, formally and in writing, end negotiations with that offeror and proceed to the next offeror in the order of the selection ranking until a contract is reached or all proposals are rejected.(h)  In determining best value for the institution, the board is not restricted to considering price alone but may consider any other factor stated in the selection criteria.
Sec. 51.784.  JOB ORDER CONTRACTS FOR FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.  (a)  An institution may award job order contracts for the minor construction, repair, rehabilitation, or alteration of a facility if the work is of a recurring nature but the delivery times are indefinite and indefinite quantities and orders are awarded substantially on the basis of predescribed and prepriced tasks.(b)  The institution may establish contractual unit prices for a job order contract by:(1)  specifying one or more published construction unit price books and the applicable divisions or line items;  or(2)  providing a list of work items and requiring the offerors to bid or propose one or more coefficients or multipliers to be applied to the price book or work items as the price proposal.(c)  The board shall advertise for, receive, and publicly open sealed proposals for job order contracts.(d)  The board may require offerors to submit additional information besides rates, including experience, past performance, and proposed personnel and methodology.(e)  The board may award job order contracts to one or more job order contractors in connection with each solicitation of bids or proposals.(f)  An order for a job or project under the job order contract must be signed by the board's representative and the contractor.  The order may be a fixed price, lump-sum contract based substantially on contractual unit pricing applied to estimated quantities or may be a unit price order based on the quantities and line items delivered.(g)  The contractor shall provide payment and performance bonds, if required by law, based on the amount or estimated amount of any order.(h)  The base term of a job order contract is for the period and with any renewal options that the institution sets forth in the request for proposals.  If the institution fails to advertise that term, the base term may not exceed two years and is not renewable without further advertisement and solicitation of proposals.(i)  If a job order contract or an order issued under the contract requires engineering or architectural services that constitute the practice of engineering within the meaning of Chapter 1001, Occupations Code, or the practice of architecture within the meaning of Chapter 1051, Occupations Code, the board shall select or designate an architect or engineer to prepare the construction documents for the facility.  If the architect or engineer is not a full-time employee of the institution, the board shall select the architect or engineer on the basis of demonstrated competence and qualifications as provided by Section 2254.004, Government Code.
Sec. 51.803.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION:  ALL INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  Subject to Subsection (a-1), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated with a grade point average in the top 10 percent of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the applicant is applying for admission and:(1)  the applicant:(A)  graduated from a public or private high school in this state accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; or(B)  completed a nontraditional secondary education as defined by Section 51.9241;(2)  the applicant:(A)  successfully completed:(i)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(ii)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program; or(B)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent; and(3)  if the applicant graduated from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense, the applicant is a Texas resident under Section 54.052 or is entitled to pay tuition fees at the rate provided for Texas residents under Section 54.241(d) for the term or semester to which admitted.(a-1)  Beginning with admissions for the 2011-2012 academic year, The University of Texas at Austin is not required to offer admission to applicants who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in excess of the number required to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students in an academic year.  If the number of applicants who qualify for automatic admission to The University of Texas at Austin under Subsection (a) for an academic year exceeds 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that academic year, the university may elect to offer admission to those applicants as provided by this subsection and not as otherwise required by Subsection (a).  If the university elects to offer admission under this subsection, the university shall offer admission to those applicants by percentile rank according to high school graduating class standing based on grade point average, beginning with the top percentile rank, until the applicants qualified under Subsection (a) have been offered admission in the number estimated in good faith by the university as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the university's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students, except that the university must offer admission to all applicants with the same percentile rank.  After the applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) have been offered admission under this subsection in the number estimated in good faith as sufficient to fill 75 percent of the designated enrollment capacity described by this subsection, the university shall consider any remaining applicants qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) in the same manner as other applicants for admission as first-time undergraduate students in accordance with Section 51.805.(a-2)  If the number of applicants who apply to a general academic teaching institution during the current academic year for admission in the next academic year and who qualify for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Subsection (a) exceeds 75 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students for that next academic year and the institution plans to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year, the institution shall, in the manner prescribed by the Texas Education Agency and not later than September 15, provide to each school district, for dissemination of the information to high school junior-level students and their parents, notice of which percentile ranks of high school senior-level students who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) are anticipated by the institution to be offered admission under Subsection (a-1) during the next school year.(a-3)  Repealed by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 776 , Sec. 1, eff. June 17, 2015.(a-4)  If The University of Texas at Austin elects to offer admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year, the university must continue its practice of not considering an applicant's legacy status as a factor in the university's decisions relating to admissions for that academic year.(a-5)  A general academic teaching institution that offers admission to first-time resident undergraduate students under Subsection (a-1) shall require that a student admitted under that subsection complete a designated portion of not less than six semester credit hours of the student's coursework during evening hours or other low-demand hours as necessary to ensure the efficient use of the institution's available classrooms.(a-6)  Not later than December 31 of each academic year in which The University of Texas at Austin offers admission under Subsection (a-1), the university shall deliver a written report to the governor, the lieutenant governor, and speaker of the house of representatives regarding the university's progress in each of the following matters:(1)  increasing geographic diversity of the entering freshman class;(2)  counseling and outreach efforts aimed at students qualified for automatic admission under this section;(3)  recruiting Texas residents who graduate from other institutions of higher education to the university's graduate and professional degree programs;(4)  recruiting students who are members of underrepresented demographic segments of the state's population; and(5)  assessing and improving the university's regional recruitment centers.(b)  An applicant who does not satisfy the curriculum requirements prescribed by Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii) is considered to have satisfied those requirements if the student completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student but was unable to complete the remainder of the curriculum solely because courses necessary to complete the remainder were unavailable to the student at the appropriate times in the student's high school career as a result of course scheduling, lack of enrollment capacity, or another cause not within the student's control.(c)  To qualify for admission under this section, an applicant must:(1)  submit an application before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution; and(2)  provide a high school transcript or diploma that satisfies the requirements of Subsection (d).(d)  For purposes of Subsection (c)(2), a student's official transcript or diploma must, not later than the end of the student's junior year, indicate:(1)  whether the student has satisfied or is on schedule to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (a)(2)(A)(i) or (ii), as applicable; or(2)  if Subsection (b) applies to the student, whether the student has completed the portion of the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program curriculum or of the curriculum equivalent in content and rigor, as applicable, that was available to the student.(d-1)  In addition to admissions required under Subsection (a), each general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant graduated as the valedictorian of the student's high school graduating class in one of the two school years preceding the academic year for which the student is applying for admission and satisfies the requirements of Subsections (a)(1) through (3).  Subsection (b) applies to an applicant for admission under this subsection.  An applicant admitted under this subsection is considered automatically admitted for purposes of Subsection (a), (a-1), or (a-2), as applicable.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student if the applicant:(1)  is the child of a public servant listed in Section 615.003, Government Code, who was killed or sustained a fatal injury in the line of duty; and(2)  meets the minimum requirements, if any, established for purposes of this subsection by the governing board of the institution for high school or prior college-level grade point average and performance on standardized tests.(f)  After admitting an applicant under this section, the institution shall review the applicant's record and any other factor the institution considers appropriate to determine whether the applicant may require additional preparation for college-level work or would benefit from inclusion in a retention program.  The institution may require a student so identified to enroll during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section to participate in appropriate enrichment courses and orientation programs.  This section does not prohibit a student who is not determined to need additional preparation for college-level work from enrolling, if the student chooses, during the summer immediately after the student is admitted under this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board by rule shall develop and implement a program to increase and enhance the efforts of general academic teaching institutions in conducting outreach to academically high-performing high school seniors in this state who are likely to be eligible for automatic admission under Subsection (a) to provide to those students information and counseling regarding the operation of this section and other opportunities, including financial assistance, available to those students for success at public institutions of higher education in this state.  Under the program, the coordinating board, after gathering information and recommendations from available sources and examining current outreach practices by institutions in this state and in other states, shall prescribe best practices guidelines and standards to be used by general academic teaching institutions in conducting the student outreach described by this subsection.(h)  An institution that admits under this section an applicant qualified for automatic admission under Subsection (a) or (d-1) may admit the applicant for either the fall semester of the academic year for which the applicant applies or for the summer session preceding that fall semester, as determined by the institution.(i)  If a general academic teaching institution denies admission to an applicant for an academic year, in any letter or other communication the institution provides to the applicant notifying the applicant of that denial, the institution may not reference the provisions of this section, including using a description of a provision of this section such as the top 10 percent automatic admissions law, as a reason the institution is unable to offer admission to the applicant unless the number of applicants for admission to the institution for that academic year who qualify for automatic admission under Subsection (a) is sufficient to fill 100 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time resident undergraduate students.(j)  A general academic teaching institution that elects to offer admission under Subsection (a-1) for an academic year may not offer admission to first-time undergraduate students who are not residents of this state for that academic year in excess of the number required to fill 10 percent of the institution's enrollment capacity designated for first-time undergraduate students for that academic year.(k)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 365 (S.B. 2538), Sec. 1, eff. June 2, 2023.(l)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall publish an annual report on the impact of Subsection (a-1) on the state's goal of closing college access and achievement gaps under "Closing the Gaps," the state's master plan for higher education, with respect to students of an institution that offers admission under that subsection, disaggregated by race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region and by whether the high school from which the student graduated was a small school, as defined by the commissioner of education, or a public high school that is ranked among the lowest 20 percent of public high schools according to the percentage of each high school's graduates who enroll in a four-year institution, including a general academic teaching institution, in one of the two academic years following the year of the applicant's high school graduation.  On request, a general academic teaching institution that offers admission under Subsection (a-1) shall provide the board with any information the board considers necessary for the completion of the report required by this subsection.(m)  In determining the eligibility for admission under this section of an applicant with a nontraditional secondary education, as defined by Section 51.9241, that does not include a high school graduating class ranking, a general academic teaching institution shall calculate the applicant's class rank in the manner provided by Section 51.9241(d).
Sec. 51.8035.  AUTOMATIC ADMISSION OF APPLICANTS COMPLETING CORE CURRICULUM AT ANOTHER INSTITUTION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Core curriculum" means the core curriculum adopted by an institution of higher education under Section 61.822.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution shall admit an applicant for admission to the institution as a transfer undergraduate student who:(1)  graduated from high school not earlier than the fourth school year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission to the institution as a transfer student and:(A)  qualified for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Section 51.803 at the time of graduation; or(B)  was previously offered admission under this subchapter to the institution to which the applicant seeks admission as a transfer student;(2)  first enrolled in a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education not earlier than the third academic year before the academic year for which the applicant seeks admission;(3)  completed the core curriculum at a public junior college or other public or private lower-division institution of higher education with a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale or the equivalent; and(4)  submits a completed application for admission as a transfer student before the expiration of any application filing deadline established by the institution.(c)  For purposes of this section, transfer semester credit hours from a different institution of higher education and semester credit hours earned by examination shall be included in determining whether the person completed the core curriculum at an institution of higher education.(d)  It is the responsibility of the applicant for admission under this section to:(1)  expressly and clearly claim in the application entitlement to admission under this section; and(2)  timely provide to the general academic teaching institution the documentation required by the institution to determine the student's entitlement to admission under this section.
Sec. 51.8045.  GRADUATES OF CERTAIN SPECIAL HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS.  (a)  For purposes of Sections 51.803 and 51.804 only, the governing body of a school district may treat a high school magnet program, academy, or other special program conducted by the school district at a high school attended by high school students who are not students of the special program as an independent high school with its own graduating class separate from the graduating class of other students attending the high school if:(1)  the special program was in operation in the 2000-2001 school year;(2)  the students of the special program are recruited, selected, or admitted from among the students residing in the attendance zones of not fewer than 10 regular high schools in the district, including the high school at which the special program is conducted;(3)  the students of the special program are selected or admitted independently of and identified as a student body separate from the other students of the high school;(4)  the students of the special program constitute not less than 35 percent of the total number of students in the graduating class at the high school at which the special program is conducted;(5)  the students of the special program have a curriculum different from that of the other students of the high school, even if students of the special program and other students of the high school attend some of the same classes;  and(6)  a student graduating from the special program receives a high school diploma that includes a reference to the special program in describing the high school from which the student graduated.(b)  This section does not apply to the manner in which the members of a graduating class of the high school as a whole, including graduates of the special program, are ranked by grade point average for purposes other than admissions under Sections 51.803 and 51.804.
Sec. 51.805.  OTHER ADMISSIONS.  (a)  A graduating student who does not qualify for admission under Section 51.803 or 51.804 may apply to any general academic teaching institution if the student:(1)  successfully completed:(A)  at a public high school, the curriculum requirements established under Section 28.025 for the foundation high school program; or(B)  at a high school to which Section 28.025 does not apply, a curriculum that is equivalent in content and rigor to the foundation high school program; or(2)  satisfied ACT's College Readiness Benchmarks on the ACT assessment applicable to the applicant or earned on the SAT assessment a score of at least 1,500 out of 2,400 or the equivalent.(b)  The general academic teaching institution, after admitting students under Sections 51.803 and 51.804, shall admit other applicants for admission as undergraduate students.  It is the intent of the legislature that all institutions of higher education pursue academic excellence by considering students' academic achievements in decisions related to admissions.  Because of changing demographic trends, diversity, and population increases in the state, each general academic teaching institution shall also consider all of, any of, or a combination of the following socioeconomic indicators or factors in making first-time freshman admissions decisions:(1)  the applicant's academic record;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant, including the percentage by which the applicant's family is above or below any recognized measure of poverty, the applicant's household income, and the applicant's parents' level of education;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an institution of higher education;(4)  whether the applicant has bilingual proficiency;(5)  the financial status of the applicant's school district;(6)  the performance level of the applicant's school as determined by the school accountability criteria used by the Texas Education Agency;(7)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending school, including whether the applicant has been employed, whether the applicant has helped to raise children, or other similar factors;(8)  the applicant's region of residence;(9)  whether the applicant is a resident of a rural or urban area or a resident of a central city or suburban area in the state;(10)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests;(11)  the applicant's performance on standardized tests in comparison with that of other students from similar socioeconomic backgrounds;(12)  whether the applicant attended any school while the school was under a court-ordered desegregation plan;(13)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(14)  the applicant's extracurricular activities;(15)  the applicant's commitment to a particular field of study;(16)  the applicant's personal interview;(17)  the applicant's admission to a comparable accredited out-of-state institution;  and(18)  any other consideration the institution considers necessary to accomplish the institution's stated mission.(c)  A general academic teaching institution may review other factors in making an admissions decision.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admission are first considered under this section, each general academic teaching institution shall publish in the institution's catalog a description of the factors considered by the institution in making admission decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  This section does not apply to an institution that has an open enrollment policy, except that a student may apply to a general academic teaching institution that has an open enrollment policy only if the student satisfies the requirements described by Subsection (a).(f)  This section does not apply to Lamar State College--Orange or Lamar State College--Port Arthur as long as those institutions operate as two-year lower-division institutions of higher education.
Sec. 51.808.  APPLICATION OF ADMISSION CRITERIA TO OTHER PROGRAMS.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit that offers admissions to undergraduate transfer students or admissions to a graduate, postgraduate, or professional program shall adopt a written admission policy applicable to those programs.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution shall adopt a written admission policy to promote the admission of undergraduate transfer students to the institution.  The policy must provide for outreach and recruiting efforts directed at junior colleges and other lower-division institutions of higher education and may include incentives to encourage transfer applications and to retain and promote transfer students.(c)  A policy adopted under this section shall be published in the institution's or unit's catalog and made available to the public.
Sec. 51.810.  HIGHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE PLANS.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The institution of higher education in closest geographic proximity to a public high school in this state identified by the coordinating board for purposes of this section as substantially below the state average in the number of graduates who enroll in higher education institutions shall enter into an agreement with that high school to develop a plan to increase the number of students from that high school enrolling in higher education institutions.  Under the plan, the institution shall:(1)  collaborate with the high school to:(A)  provide to prospective students information related to enrollment in an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, including admissions, testing, and financial aid information;(B)  assist those prospective students in completing applications and testing related to enrollment in those institutions, including admissions and financial aid applications, and fulfilling testing requirements; and(C)  target efforts to increase the number of Hispanic students and African American male students enrolled in higher education institutions; and(2)  actively engage with local school districts to provide access to rigorous, high-quality dual credit opportunities for qualified high school students as needed.(c)  An institution of higher education must include a plan developed by the institution under this section and the results of that plan in its annual report to the coordinating board under Section 51.4032.(d)  The coordinating board shall include in its annual "Closing the Gaps" higher education plan progress report a summary of the results of the plans developed and administered under this section.(e)  The coordinating board may adopt rules to implement this section.
SUBCHAPTER V. JOINT ADMISSION MEDICAL PROGRAMSec. 51.821.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Council" means the Joint Admission Medical Program Council established under this subchapter.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" means a four-year general academic teaching institution as defined by Section 61.003. (3)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" means an institution as defined by Section 61.003(15) that grants baccalaureate degrees and offers a program in premedical education.(4)  "Participating medical school" means each of the following entities:(A)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston;(B)  the medical school at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;(C)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio;(D)  the medical school at The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston;(E)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at Lubbock;(F)  the medical school at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center at El Paso;(G)  the Baylor College of Medicine;(H)  the college of osteopathic medicine at the University of North Texas Health Science Center at Fort Worth;(I)  the medical school at The Texas A&M University System Health Science Center;(J)  the medical school at The University of Texas at Austin;(K)  the medical school at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley;(L)  the medical school at the University of Houston;(M)  the college of osteopathic medicine at Sam Houston State University; and(N)  the medical school at The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler.(5)  "Participating student" means an eligible undergraduate student who is admitted to the program and who maintains eligibility for continued participation in the program.  The term does not include a program alternate who participates in mentoring activities and receives other related counseling services under the program.(6)  "Program" means the Joint Admission Medical Program established under this subchapter.
Sec. 51.824.  COUNCIL DUTIES.  (a)  The council shall:(1)  recruit eligible undergraduate students for admission to the program;(2)  establish an application process for admitting eligible undergraduate students to the program;(3)  evaluate applications for admission to the program according to the procedures for selecting participating students under Subsection (b) and for selecting program alternates under Section 51.8245;(4)  monitor the implementation of the program;(5)  assist in developing services to support and encourage the pursuit of a medical education by participating students and program alternates;(6)  establish a process for participating students to:(A)  be matched to an internship program as described by Subsection (c);(B)  be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Subsection (d);(C)  apply for admission to participating medical schools;(D)  be matched to a participating medical school as described by Subsection (e); and(E)  enroll in that school;(7)  award to participating students undergraduate scholarships and summer stipends, including a summer stipend for a student who is required to participate in an internship program in the summer immediately following the student's senior year;(8)  award graduate scholarships to participating students;(9)  enter into an agreement with each student admitted to the program, each program alternate, each participating medical school, and each general academic teaching institution or private or independent institution of higher education as required by this subchapter; and(10)  take any other action necessary to implement the program.(b)  From each general academic teaching institution, the council annually shall select for admission to the program two eligible undergraduate students who are enrolled as sophomores at that institution.  From each private or independent institution of higher education, the council annually shall select for admission to the program one eligible undergraduate student who is enrolled as a sophomore at that institution.  The council shall allocate the remaining program openings to participating institutions as the council determines to be appropriate.  If there are insufficient program openings to accommodate two students from each general academic teaching institution and one student from each private or independent institution of higher education, as appropriate to achieve the purpose of this subchapter the council shall select for admission to the program eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled in the participating institutions, with not more than 15 percent of the total program openings for any year to be allocated to eligible sophomore-level students who are enrolled at private or independent institutions of higher education.(c)  The council shall match each participating student with appropriate internship programs offered by participating medical schools during the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years.  A participating medical school to which a participating student is matched under Subsection (e) may require the student to participate in an internship program offered by the medical school during the summer immediately following the student's senior year.(d)  The council shall match each participating student and each program alternate with any appropriate undergraduate mentoring program required of the student or alternate by the council.(e)  During a participating student's senior year, the council shall match the student with an appropriate participating medical school as necessary to fill the percentage of enrollment capacity set aside by each medical school under the program.  To the extent possible, the council shall accommodate the preferences of participating students regarding medical school placement.  A participating medical school may not make an offer of admission to a participating student before the student is matched by the council to a medical school as described by this subsection.
Sec. 51.8245.  PROGRAM ALTERNATES.  (a)  The council shall establish procedures by which the council selects from the annual pool of applicants for the program an appropriate number of eligible undergraduate students to serve as program alternates until the beginning of their senior year.  The council shall rank program alternates according to their qualifications for the program and, immediately on the termination of the participation of a student previously admitted to the program, shall select the highest ranking program alternate to be a participating student under the program.  The council may not select a program alternate to be a participating student after the first day of the fall semester of the alternate's senior year.(b)  The council shall establish procedures for program alternates to be matched to any required undergraduate mentoring program as described by Section 51.824(d).  A program alternate selected under this section is limited to participating in mentoring activities and receiving other related counseling services under the program and must sign an agreement to that effect.(c)  The council shall adopt criteria for program alternates to maintain their eligibility as program alternates.
Sec. 51.826.  ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION TO PROGRAM.(a)  To be eligible for admission to the program or for selection as a program alternate, an undergraduate student must:(1)   be enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education at the time of application to the program;(2)  be a Texas resident for purposes of tuition under Subchapter B, Chapter 54;(3)  except as provided by Subsection (c), successfully complete at least 27 semester credit hours during the student's freshman year;(4)  apply for admission to the program not later than a date, as designated by the council, that occurs during the fall semester of the student's sophomore year at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education; and(5)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  minimum high school and undergraduate grade point averages;(B)  financial need and any other indication of economic disadvantage; and(C)  any other matter the council considers appropriate.(b)  For purposes of Subsection (a)(3), a student is not a Texas resident as described by that subdivision solely because the student is eligible to pay tuition at the resident tuition rate.(c)  The council shall adopt rules to admit to the program or to select as a program alternate an otherwise eligible undergraduate student who, for good cause, has not successfully completed the number of semester credit hours required under Subsection (a)(4).  The council may not admit to the program or select as a program alternate an undergraduate student who has successfully completed fewer than 18 semester credit hours.
Sec. 51.8265.  PREADMISSION MENTORING AND ASSISTANCE.  (a)  In order to maximize a student's potential for success in the program, the council shall identify students who may be eligible to participate in the program not later than the beginning of the first fall semester following the student's graduation from high school.(b)  If the student is enrolled at a general academic teaching institution or a private or independent institution of higher education, an identified student who expresses an interest in participating in the program is entitled to the following assistance during the student's freshman year:(1)  regular meetings with a program faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to monitor the student's academic progress and advise the student in academic course work and career choices; and(2)  tutoring in courses as necessary, to be paid with program funds.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 826, Sec. 3(2), eff. June 19, 2009.
Sec. 51.827.  ELIGIBILITY TO CONTINUE PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM.  (a)  To be eligible to continue participation in the program, an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program must:(1)  meet criteria established by the council regarding:(A)  courses taken and minimum grade point average for those courses during enrollment at the general academic teaching institution or the private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  progress in those courses;(C)  achievement of an acceptable score on the Medical College Admission Test or any equivalent examination taken as a precondition for enrollment in or admission to a participating medical school; and(D)  any other matter the council considers appropriate;(2)  participate in:(A)  internship programs described by Section 51.824(c) in:(i)  the summers immediately following the student's sophomore and junior years; and(ii)  if required, the summer immediately following the student's senior year; and(B)  any undergraduate or graduate mentoring program required by the council; and(3)  exhibit intelligence, integrity, and personal and emotional characteristics that are considered necessary for the student to become an effective physician.(b)  If an undergraduate student who is admitted to the program fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) without good cause as determined by the council, the council may terminate that student's participation in the program at the end of the semester during which the student failed to meet the requirements of that subsection.  A student's participation in the program is automatically terminated if the student fails to meet the requirements of Subsection (a) for two consecutive semesters without good cause.
Sec. 51.829.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PARTICIPATING MEDICAL SCHOOL.  (a)  Each participating medical school must enter into an agreement with the council under which the medical school agrees to:(1)  select a faculty member employed by the medical school to serve on the council;(2)  commit faculty and administrative resources to the program;(3)  set aside for participating students at least 10 percent of the medical school's enrollment capacity for each entering class, except as provided by Subsection (b);(4)  admit participating students who are matched to the medical school under the program;(5)  provide internship programs for participating students who have been matched to or are required to participate in those programs as described by Section 51.824(c) and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary;(6)  provide for participating students and program alternates any mentoring programs required by the council at the undergraduate level and coordinate the administration of those programs with general academic teaching institutions or private or independent institutions of higher education as necessary; and(7)  provide support services, including postbaccalaureate mentoring programs required by the council, to participating students who enroll in the medical school.(b)  The Baylor College of Medicine must agree under Subsection (a) to set aside under Subsection (a)(3) not less than 10 percent of its enrollment capacity set aside for students who are entitled to pay tuition at the rate provided by Chapter 54 for resident students.
Sec. 51.831.  COUNCIL AGREEMENT WITH PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Each private or independent institution of higher education must enter into an agreement with the council under which the institution agrees to:(1)  provide academic counseling to a participating student or program alternate enrolled at the institution;(2)  as soon as practicable, implement or expand appropriate degree programs as necessary to provide participating students with sufficient preparation for enrollment in participating medical schools;(3)  select a faculty director or an academic or health professions advisor to assist in implementing the program at the institution and in implementing or expanding the institution's degree programs as necessary under Subdivision (2); and(4)  provide, in addition to any other scholarship money awarded to the student, a scholarship to a participating student in the amount required for a participating student attending a general academic teaching institution, except that the amount of scholarship awards may not exceed the amount of tuition and fees that the student is charged.
Sec. 51.842.  ADMISSION AND SCHOLARSHIP FACTORS FOR GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  A graduate or professional program of a general academic teaching institution or medical or dental unit may consider the following factors in making an admissions or scholarship decision for admissions into or competitive scholarships for the graduate or professional program:(1)  an applicant's academic record as a high school student and undergraduate student;(2)  the socioeconomic background of the applicant while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school and was an undergraduate student, including any change in that background;(3)  whether the applicant would be the first generation of the applicant's family to attend or graduate from an undergraduate program or from a graduate or professional program;(4)  whether the applicant has multilingual proficiency;(5)  the applicant's responsibilities while attending elementary and secondary school and as an undergraduate student, including whether the applicant was employed, whether the applicant helped to raise children, and other similar factors;(6)  to achieve geographic diversity, the applicant's region of residence at the time of application and, if the applicant graduated from a public high school in this state within the preceding 20 years, the region in which the applicant's school district is located;(7)  the applicant's involvement in community activities;(8)  the applicant's demonstrated commitment to a particular field of study;(9)  for admission into a professional program, the current comparative availability of members of that profession in the applicant's region of residence while the applicant attended elementary and secondary school;(10)  whether the applicant was automatically admitted to a general academic teaching institution as an undergraduate student under Section 51.803;  and(11)  the applicant's personal interview.(b)  An applicant's performance on a standardized test may not be used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program as the sole criterion for consideration of the applicant or as the primary criterion to end consideration of the applicant.  If an applicant's performance on a standardized test is used in the admissions or competitive scholarship process, the applicant's performance must also be used to compare the applicant's test score with those of other applicants from similar socioeconomic backgrounds to the extent that those backgrounds can be properly determined and identified by the general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit based on information provided in the institution's or unit's admissions or competitive scholarship process.  This subsection does not apply to a standardized test used to measure the English language proficiency of a student who is a graduate of a foreign institution of higher education.(c)  A general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit may not assign a specific weight to any one factor being considered in the admissions or competitive scholarship process for a graduate or professional program.(d)  Not later than one year before the date that applications for admissions and competitive scholarships are first considered for a graduate or professional program under this subchapter, each general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit shall publish in the catalog of the institution or unit a description of the factors to be considered by the institution or unit in making those admissions and competitive scholarship decisions and shall make the information available to the public.(e)  Notwithstanding Subsection (d), if compliance with requirements of an accrediting agency effectively prevent a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit from timely publishing the factors to be considered in admissions decisions, the institution may delay publication of the factors, but shall publish the factors as soon as practicable when compliance with accrediting agency requirements permits.
Sec. 51.844.  READMISSION OF CERTAIN MILITARY PERSONNEL TO GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS.  (a)  This section applies only to a person who:(1)  was previously offered admission to, or was enrolled in, a graduate program or professional program at a general academic teaching institution or medical and dental unit;(2)  did not initially enroll in the program, or withdrew from the program, as applicable, because of the person's deployment as a member of the armed forces of the United States serving on active duty for the purpose of engaging in a combative military operation outside the United States; and(3)  seeks readmission to the program following the person's military deployment under Subdivision (2).(b)  A general academic teaching institution or a medical and dental unit must, regardless of the time since the person was initially offered admission to, or withdrew from, the program, as applicable:(1)  readmit a person to whom this section applies to the applicable graduate or professional program;(2)  apply credit toward the program for any course work previously completed by the person under the program; and(3)  accept a standardized test score previously submitted by that person for admission to the program.
SUBCHAPTER Y-1.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORSSec. 51.881.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:(1)  "Advisory committee" means the committee established under Section 38.202.(2)  "Anaphylaxis" means a sudden, severe, and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction that occurs when a person is exposed to an allergen.(3)  "Campus" means an educational unit under the management and control of an institution of higher education and may include, in addition to the main campus, off-campus and secondary locations, such as branch campuses, teaching locations, and regional centers.(4)  "Epinephrine auto-injector" means a disposable medical drug delivery device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is intended to be used to treat anaphylaxis.(5)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Personnel" means employees of an institution of higher education.(7)  "Physician" means a person who holds a license to practice medicine in this state.
Sec. 51.882.  MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISPOSAL OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education may adopt and implement a policy regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of epinephrine auto-injectors on the institution's campus.(b)  If a policy is adopted under Subsection (a), the policy:(1)  must provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis on the institution's campus; and(2)  may provide that personnel or volunteers who are authorized and trained may administer an epinephrine auto-injector to a person who is reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis at an off-campus event or while in transit to or from an off-campus event sponsored by the institution of higher education.(c)  The commissioner of state health services with advice from the advisory committee shall adopt rules regarding the maintenance, storage, administration, and disposal of an epinephrine auto-injector on the campus of an institution of higher education subject to a policy adopted under Subsection (a).  The rules must establish:(1)  the number of epinephrine auto-injectors available at each campus;(2)  the process for each institution of higher education to check the inventory of epinephrine auto-injectors at regular intervals for expiration and replacement; and(3)  the amount of training required for personnel or volunteers to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(d)  Each institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a):(1)  must require that the institution's campuses have personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector present; and(2)  shall include the policy in the institution's student handbook or similar publication and publish the policy on the institution's Internet website.(e)  The supply of epinephrine auto-injectors at a campus must be stored in a secure location and be easily accessible to personnel or volunteers authorized and trained to administer an epinephrine auto-injector.(f)  An institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Subsection (a) shall submit to the Department of State Health Services a copy of the policy and any amendment to the policy adopted by the institution.  The department shall maintain a record of the most recent policy and amendments submitted by each institution under this subsection and shall make that information available to the public on request.
Sec. 51.883.  REPORT ON ADMINISTERING EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTOR.  (a)  Not later than the 10th business day after the date a personnel member or volunteer administers an epinephrine auto-injector in accordance with a policy adopted under Section 51.882(a), the institution of higher education shall report the information required under Subsection (b) to:(1)  the physician who prescribed the epinephrine auto-injector; and(2)  the commissioner of state health services.(b)  The report required under this section must include the following information:(1)  the age of the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector;(2)  whether the person who received the administration of the epinephrine auto-injector was a student, a personnel member, or a visitor;(3)  the physical location where the epinephrine auto-injector was administered;(4)  the number of doses of epinephrine auto-injector administered;(5)  the title of the person who administered the epinephrine auto-injector; and(6)  any other information required by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.885.  PRESCRIPTION OF EPINEPHRINE AUTO-INJECTORS.  (a)  A physician may prescribe epinephrine auto-injectors in the name of an institution of higher education that adopts a policy under Section 51.882(a).  The physician shall provide the institution with a standing order for the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector to a person reasonably believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis.(b)  The standing order under Subsection (a) is not required to be patient-specific, and the epinephrine auto-injector may be administered to a person without an established physician-patient relationship.(c)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, supervision or delegation by a physician is considered adequate if the physician:(1)  periodically reviews the order; and(2)  is available through direct telecommunication as needed for consultation, assistance, and direction.(d)  An order issued under this section must contain:(1)  the name and signature of the prescribing physician;(2)  the name of the institution of higher education to which the order is issued;(3)  the quantity of epinephrine auto-injectors to be obtained and maintained under the order; and(4)  the date of issue.(e)  A pharmacist may dispense an epinephrine auto-injector to an institution of higher education without requiring the name or any other identifying information relating to the user.
Sec. 51.888.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY.  (a)  A person who in good faith takes, or fails to take, any action under this subchapter is immune from civil or criminal liability or disciplinary action resulting from that act or failure to act, including:(1)  issuing an order for epinephrine auto-injectors;(2)  supervising or delegating the administration of an epinephrine auto-injector;(3)  possessing an epinephrine auto-injector;(4)  maintaining an epinephrine auto-injector;(5)  storing an epinephrine auto-injector;(6)  disposing of an epinephrine auto-injector;(7)  prescribing an epinephrine auto-injector;(8)  dispensing an epinephrine auto-injector;(9)  administering, or assisting in administering, an epinephrine auto-injector;(10)  providing, or assisting in providing, training, consultation, or advice in the development, adoption, or implementation of policies, guidelines, rules, or plans; or(11)  undertaking any other act permitted or required under this subchapter.(b)  The immunity provided by Subsection (a) is in addition to other immunity or limitations of liability provided by law.(c)  Notwithstanding any other law, this subchapter does not create a civil, criminal, or administrative cause of action or liability or create a standard of care, obligation, or duty that provides the basis for a cause of action for an act or omission under this subchapter.(d)  An institution of higher education or a campus of an institution of higher education is immune from suit resulting from an act, or failure to act, under this subchapter, including an act or failure to act under related policies and procedures.(e)  A cause of action does not arise from an act or omission described by this section.
Sec. 51.903.  ARCHIVES;  CERTIFIED COPIES.  (a)  The commissioners court of any county or any other custodian of public records may lend to the library of any state-supported institution of higher education, for any period and on any conditions it may determine, any parts of its archives or records that have become mainly of historical value.  The librarian shall give a receipt for any archives or records received.  The librarian may make copies for historical study.(b)  The librarian and the archivist of any state-supported institution of higher education are authorized to make certified copies of public records in the custody of the institution.  These certified copies are valid in law and have the same force and effect for all purposes as if certified by the county clerk or other custodian as otherwise provided by law.  In making a certified copy, the librarian or archivist shall certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the document, and after signing the certificate shall swear to it before any officer authorized to take oaths under the laws of this state.(c)  Nothing in this section affects the authority of the Texas State Librarian concerning public records as currently or later granted by law.
Text of section as amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1088, Sec. 1Sec. 51.904.  STREET CLOSING.  The governing board of an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 in a county having a population of more than 3 million may vacate, abandon, and close a street or alley running through the campus if the institution:(1)  owns all of the real property abutting the street or alley;(2)  owns 20 or more acres of real property at the campus where the street or alley is located;(3)  before the 45th day preceding the date the street or alley is to close, provides to the governing body of the political subdivision owning, controlling, or maintaining the street or alley written notice of the institution's intent to close the street or alley;  and(4)  for each utility line or facility in the affected street or alley that is owned by a governing body described by Subdivision (3) or a franchised utility company:(A)  grants an easement of sufficient size and configuration and with appropriate rights to enable the continued use, operation, and maintenance of the line or facility;  or(B)  moves the line or facility to another location:(i)  on the approval of the appropriate governing body and franchised utility company;  and(ii)  at the sole expense of the institution.
Sec. 51.905.  STATE-OWNED MUSEUM BUILDINGS.  (a)  The governing board of each state-supported institution of higher education commonly referred to as a senior college shall formulate and adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the use of a state-owned museum building located on its campus, including the designation of rooms or areas in honor of donors or other benefactors, if appropriate, and shall administer the expenditure of all state funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of such museum, including restoration or refurbishing of collections.(b)  Repealed by Acts 1975, 64th Leg., p. 1251, ch. 474, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1975.(c)  State funds appropriated for construction, equipment, operation, maintenance, or improvement of a museum located on a college or university campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section which are used or expended conjunctively with funds belonging to a historical society or group incorporated as a nonprofit organization are subject to audit by the state auditor in accordance with Chapter 321, Government Code, including all accounts, books, and other financial records of the state government and the nonprofit corporation pertaining to the expenditure of funds which have been used or expended jointly for constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, or improving such museum.  The state auditor shall prepare a written report or reports of such audit or audits to the Legislative Audit Committee and the governing board of the state-supported institution of higher education.(d)  No employee of a museum located on a campus referred to in Subsection (a) of this section, who is paid in whole or in part by state funds may be employed or discharged except with the approval and consent of the governing board of the state-supported institution on which campus the museum is located.
Sec. 51.907.  LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF COURSES THAT MAY BE DROPPED UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an undergraduate student who drops a course at an institution of higher education and only if:(1)  the student was able to drop the course without receiving a grade or incurring an academic penalty;(2)  the student's transcript indicates or will indicate that the student was enrolled in the course; and(3)  the student is not dropping the course in order to withdraw from the institution.(b-1)  This section does not apply to a student enrolled in a competency-based baccalaureate degree program, as defined by Section 56.521.(c)  Except as provided under rules adopted under Subsection (d), an institution of higher education may not permit a student to drop more than six courses, including any course a transfer student has dropped at another institution of higher education, under circumstances described by Subsection (b).(c-1)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course that a student dropped while enrolled in a baccalaureate degree program previously earned by the student.(c-2)  An institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a dual credit or dual enrollment course that a student dropped before graduating from high school.(d)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a policy under which the maximum number of courses a student is permitted to drop under circumstances described by Subsection (b) is less than the maximum number of courses that a student may drop under Subsection (c).(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop more courses under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if good cause exists for dropping more than that number, including:(1)  the student's showing of:(A)  a severe illness or other debilitating condition that affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(B)  the student's responsibility for the care of a sick, injured, or needy person if the provision of care affects the student's ability to satisfactorily complete a course;(C)  the death of a person who:(i)  is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(ii) is otherwise considered to have a sufficiently close relationship to the student under a rule adopted under this subsection that the person's death is considered to be a showing of good cause; or(D)  the active duty service as a member of the Texas National Guard or the armed forces of the United States of:(i)  the student; or(ii) a person who is considered to be a member of the student's family under a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this paragraph; or(2)  a disaster declared by the governor under Section 418.014, Government Code, resulting in a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution of a duration that significantly affects the student's ability to participate in coursework, as determined in accordance with a rule adopted under this subsection for purposes of this subdivision.(e-1)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules under which an institution of higher education shall permit a student to drop one additional course under circumstances described by Subsection (b) than the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or under a policy adopted under Subsection (d) if the student:(1)  has reenrolled at the institution following a break in enrollment from the institution or another institution of higher education covering the 24-month period preceding the first class day of the initial semester or other academic term of the student's reenrollment; and (2)  successfully completed at least 50 semester credit hours of course work at an institution of higher education before that break in enrollment.(e-2)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an institution of higher education may not count toward the number of courses permitted to be dropped under Subsection (c) or a policy adopted under Subsection (d) a course dropped by a student during the 2020 spring semester or summer term or the 2020-2021 academic year because of a bar or limit on in-person course attendance at the institution during the applicable semester or term due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.(f)  In determining the number of courses dropped by a student for purposes of this section, a course, such as a laboratory or discussion course, in which a student is enrolled concurrently with a lecture course is not considered to be a course separate from the lecture course if:(1)  concurrent enrollment in both courses is required; and(2)  in dropping the lecture course, the student would be required to drop the laboratory, discussion, or other course in which the student is concurrently enrolled.
Sec. 51.9095.  STUDENT COMPLIANCE WITH SELECTIVE SERVICE REGISTRATION.  (a)  An individual may not receive a loan, grant, scholarship, or other financial assistance funded by state revenue, including federal funds or gifts and grants accepted by this state, or receive a student loan guaranteed by this state or the Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corporation, unless the individual files a statement of the individual's selective service status with the institution or other entity granting or guaranteeing the financial assistance as required by this section.(b)  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is registered with the selective service system as required by federal law, the individual is not required to file a statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the same entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.  If an individual required by this section to file a statement of the individual's selective service status files a statement indicating that the individual is not required to register with the selective service system, the institution or other entity shall require the individual to file a new statement of the individual's selective service status the next time the individual makes an application to the entity for financial assistance or a student loan guarantee.(c)  This section does not apply to:(1)  a female individual if females are not subject to general selective service registration under federal law;  or(2)  an individual older than the maximum age at which an individual is required to be registered with the selective service system under federal law.(d)  The statement of an individual's selective service status required by this section must require the individual to certify that the individual:(1)  has registered with the selective service system as required by federal law;  or(2)  is exempt from selective service registration under federal law.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education of the required statement and the applicable rules.  The statement must require an individual claiming to be exempt from registration to specify the basis of the exemption.  The coordinating board may require an individual filing a statement of selective service status to include with the statement any additional information or documentation the coordinating board determines appropriate.
Sec. 51.911.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(2)  "Religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.(b)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or other required activities, including examinations, for the observance of a religious holy day, including travel for that purpose.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to take an examination or complete an assignment from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.(c)  Repealed by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 218, Sec. 2.(d)  A student who is excused under this section may not be penalized for the absence, but the instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination.(e)  The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, shall adopt rules for the implementation of this section and shall disseminate the rules to the appropriate institutions under its jurisdiction.
Sec. 51.9111.  EXCUSED ABSENCE FOR REQUIRED MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Required military service" includes required military service performed by a member of the Texas National Guard or the Texas State Guard.(b)  This section applies only if:(1)  a student enrolled in an institution of higher education fails to attend classes or engage in other required activities because the student is called to required military service that is of a reasonably brief duration, as determined by rule adopted under Subsection (d); and(2)  the student chooses not to withdraw as authorized by Section 54.006(f).(c)  An institution of higher education shall excuse a student from attending classes or engaging in other required activities, including examinations, in order for the student to participate in required military service to which the student is called, including travel associated with the service.  A student whose absence is excused under this subsection may not be penalized for that absence and shall be allowed to complete an assignment or take an examination from which the student is excused within a reasonable time after the absence.  An instructor may appropriately respond if the student fails to satisfactorily complete the assignment or examination within a reasonable time after the absence.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish a maximum period for which a student may be excused under this section.  In establishing that period, the board shall consider the maximum period a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to learn the course material, complete course assignments, and succeed academically during the applicable semester or other academic period.
Sec. 51.9112.  RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS (ROTC) PROGRAM:  FEES AND COURSE CREDIT.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall determine a standard fee for a course offered through a Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program that takes into account the average statewide cost per student to an institution of higher education in providing the program, not including any reimbursement or other amounts the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.  Except as provided by Subsection (b), the governing board of each institution of higher education may not charge a student enrolled in an ROTC course any amount for the course in excess of the fee as determined by the coordinating board under this subsection.(b)  If the governing board of an institution of higher education offers course credit toward a student's degree for a course in which the student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, the governing board may charge the student tuition for that course as otherwise provided by Chapter 54 after subtracting any reimbursement or other amount the institution receives from the applicable military service or other source for offering the course.(c)  To the extent it will not adversely affect the accreditation status of an institution of higher education with the appropriate accrediting agency, the governing board of the institution shall count courses in which a student enrolls for the purposes of an ROTC program, including courses for which the student does not receive course credit toward the student's degree, in determining whether the student is enrolled as a full-time student.
Sec. 51.912.  EQUITY OWNERSHIP;  BUSINESS PARTICIPATION.  (a)  It is not a violation of Chapter 572, Government Code, or any other statute, rule, regulation, or the common law of the State of Texas for:(1)  an employee of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, who conceives, creates, discovers, invents, or develops intellectual property, to own or to be awarded any amount of equity interest or participation in, or, if approved by the institutional governing board, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board or an officer or an employee of, a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of that intellectual property;  or(2)  an individual, at the request and on behalf of a university system or an institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code, to serve as a member of the board of directors or other governing board of a business entity that has an agreement with the state or a political subdivision of the state relating to the research, development, licensing, or exploitation of intellectual property in which the university system or institution of higher education has an ownership interest.(b)  An employee or individual covered by Subsection (a) of this section must report to the appropriate person or persons at the system or institution at which the person is employed or on behalf of which the person is serving the name of such business entity in which the person has an interest or for which the person serves as a director, officer, or employee.(c)  The governing board of each system and institution shall include in the appropriate annual report required by Section 51.005 the information that is provided to it under Subsection (b) of this section during the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 51.913.  EXECUTIVE SEARCH COMMITTEES.  (a)  As used in this section, the term "executive search committee" shall mean a committee formed by an act of a board of regents of an institution of higher education, which has as its primary purpose the evaluation and assessment of candidates and nominees for the position of chief executive officer of a system administration, institution of higher education, or other agency of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The board of regents shall announce the name, background, and qualifications of any individual it selects and employs by use of such a committee.  Additionally, public notice of the name or names of the finalist or finalists being considered by the search committee must be made public record at least 21 days prior to the meeting at which final action or vote is to be taken on the employment of the individual.
Sec. 51.914.  PROTECTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.  (a)  In order to protect the actual or potential value, the following information is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, or otherwise:(1)  all information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such a product, device, or process, and all technological and scientific information (including computer programs) developed in whole or in part at a state institution of higher education, regardless of whether patentable or capable of being registered under copyright or trademark laws, that have a potential for being sold, traded, or licensed for a fee;(2)  any information relating to a product, device, or process, the application or use of such product, device, or process, and any technological and scientific information (including computer programs) that is the proprietary information of a person, partnership, corporation, or federal agency that has been disclosed to an institution of higher education solely for the purposes of a written research contract or grant that contains a provision prohibiting the institution of higher education from disclosing such proprietary information to third persons or parties; or(3)  the plans, specifications, blueprints, and designs, including related proprietary information, of a scientific research and development facility that is jointly financed by the federal government and a local government or state agency, including an institution of higher education, if the facility is designed and built for the purposes of promoting scientific research and development and increasing the economic development and diversification of this state.(b)  Information maintained by or for an institution of higher education that would reveal the institution's plans or negotiations for commercialization or a proposed research agreement, contract, or grant, or that consists of unpublished research or data that may be commercialized, is not subject to Chapter 552, Government Code, unless the information has been published, is patented, or is otherwise subject to an executed license, sponsored research agreement, or research contract or grant.  In this subsection, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.917.  FACULTY MEMBERS;  USE OF ENGLISH.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, but does not include a medical or dental unit.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who teaches a course offered for academic credit by an institution of higher education, including teaching assistants, instructors, lab assistants, research assistants, lecturers, assistant professors, associate professors, and full professors.(3)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a program or a short course the purpose of which is to:(1)  assist faculty members whose primary language is not English to become proficient in the use of English;  and(2)  ensure that courses offered for credit at the institution are taught in the English language and that all faculty members are proficient in the use of the English language, as determined by a satisfactory grade on the "Test of Spoken English" of the Educational Testing Service or a similar test approved by the board.(c)  A faculty member may use a foreign language to conduct foreign language courses designed to be taught in a foreign language.(d)  This section does not prohibit a faculty member from providing individual assistance during course instruction to a non-English-speaking student in the native language of the student.(e)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1083, Sec. 25(15), eff. June 17, 2011.(f)  The cost of such English proficiency course as determined by the coordinating board shall be paid by the faculty member lacking proficiency in English.  A faculty member must take the course until deemed proficient in English by his or her supervisor.  The cost will be deducted from said faculty member's salary.
Sec. 51.918.  RURAL HEALTH;  FAMILY PRACTICE RESIDENCY PROGRAM.  (a)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, the Texas Department of Rural Affairs, medical schools, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences shall cooperate to improve and expand programs for rural areas.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall:(1)  encourage and coordinate the creation or expansion of a rural preceptor program among medical schools, teaching hospitals, nursing schools, and schools of allied health sciences;  and(2)  require family practice residency programs to provide an opportunity for residents to have a one-month rotation through:(A)  a rural setting;  and(B)  a public health setting.(c)  The Texas Department of Rural Affairs shall develop relief service programs for rural physicians and allied health personnel to facilitate ready access to continuing medical education as well as to provide practice coverage for purposes other than continuing medical education.(d)  Each medical school shall:(1)  incorporate a clerkship in family practice during the third core clinical year;  and(2)  report to the legislature and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board on its efforts to fulfill the intent of Chapter 58, Education Code, of having at least 25 percent of their first year primary care residents in family practice.
Sec. 51.919.  HIV AND AIDS POLICY;  INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome as defined by the Centers for Disease Control of the United States Public Health Service.(2)  "HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall make available the institution's policy on HIV infection and AIDS to students, faculty, and staff members by including the policy in the student handbook and personnel handbook if practicable or by any other method.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall make available to students, on request, the educational pamphlet on HIV infection developed by the Texas Department of Health and shall include in the student handbook a statement that the pamphlet is available from the institution.(d)  The student health center of each institution of higher education shall provide clear, accurate information on how to prevent the transmission of HIV infection, including:(1)  the value of abstinence and long-term mutual monogamy;(2)  information on the efficacy and use of condoms;(3)  offering of or referring students, faculty, or staff members to anonymous HIV counseling and testing services;  and(4)  state laws relating to the transmission and to conduct that may result in the transmission of HIV.(e)  The curricula of medical, dental, nursing, allied health, counseling, and social work degree programs of institutions of higher education shall:(1)  include information about:(A)  methods of transmission and methods of prevention of HIV infection;  and(B)  federal and state laws, rules, and regulations concerning HIV infection and AIDS;  and(2)  give special attention to the physical, emotional, and psychological stress associated with the care of patients with terminal illnesses.
Sec. 51.9191.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS INFORMATION FOR NEW STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "New student" means a first-time student of an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education and includes a student who transfers to the institution from another institution.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide information relating to bacterial meningitis to new students of the institution.  The procedures must provide for the information to be provided in a brochure or other manner so that the information is reasonably likely to come to the attention of each student.  The coordinating board shall prescribe the form and content of the information.  The information must cover:(1)  the symptoms of the disease, how it may be diagnosed, and its possible consequences if untreated;(2)  how the disease is transmitted, how it may be prevented, and the relative risk of contracting the disease for students of institutions of higher education;(3)  the availability and effectiveness of vaccination against and treatment for the disease, including how students of the institution may seek vaccination or treatment and whether a vaccination is available from the student health center, and a brief description of the risks and possible side effects of vaccination;  and(4)  sources of additional information regarding the disease and include the telephone numbers of the student health center, if there is a student health center, and the appropriate office of the Texas Department of Health.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall consult with the Texas Department of Health in prescribing the content of the information to be provided to students under this section.  The coordinating board shall establish an advisory committee to assist the coordinating board in the initial implementation of this section.  The advisory committee must include at least two members who are students at public or private institutions of higher education.(d)  An institution of higher education, with the written consent of the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, may provide the information required by this section to new students of the institution by a method different from the method prescribed by the coordinating board under Subsection (b) if the coordinating board determines that method would be effective in bringing the information to the attention of all new students of the institution.(e)  Each institution of higher education shall make reasonable efforts to obtain from each new student of the institution a confirmation signed or acknowledged by the student that the student has received the information required to be provided to the student under this section and shall retain the confirmation for not less than two years after the student first enrolls at the institution.(f)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and the Texas Department of Health shall encourage private or independent institutions of higher education to provide the information prescribed by Subsection (b) to all new students of those institutions.
Sec. 51.9192.  BACTERIAL MENINGITIS VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS; EXCEPTIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health practitioner" means any person authorized  by law to administer an immunization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to an entering student at an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education.  This section does not apply to a student of an institution who is enrolled only in online or other distance education courses or who is 22 years of age or older.  For purposes of this subsection, "entering student" includes:(1)  a new student, as defined by Section 51.9191; and(2)  a student who previously attended an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education before January 1, 2012, and who is enrolling in the same or another institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education following a break in enrollment of at least one fall or spring semester.(c)  Except as provided by Subsection (d), a student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student must provide to the institution, at the time and in the manner prescribed by rules adopted by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, a certificate signed by a health practitioner or an official immunization record evidencing that the student has received a bacterial meningitis vaccination dose or booster during the five-year period preceding the date established by the coordinating board under Subsection (e).(d)  A student to whom this section applies or a parent or guardian of the student is not required to comply with Subsection (c) if the student or a parent or guardian of the student submits to the institution:(1)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine in the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the vaccination required would be injurious to the health and well-being of the student; or(2)  an affidavit signed by the student stating that the student declines the vaccination for bacterial meningitis for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief, or confirmation that the student has completed the Internet-based process described by Subsection (d-3) for declining the vaccination on that basis, if applicable to the student.(d-1)  The exemption provided by Subsection (d)(2) does not apply during a disaster or public health emergency, terrorist attack, hostile military or paramilitary action, or extraordinary law enforcement emergency declared by an appropriate official or other authority and in effect for the location of the institution the student attends.(d-2)  An affidavit submitted under Subsection (d)(2) must be:(1)  on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code; and(2)  submitted to the appropriate admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(d-3)  The Department of State Health Services shall develop and implement a secure, Internet-based process to be used exclusively at those public junior colleges that elect to use the process to allow an entering student to apply online for an exemption from the vaccination requirement under this section for reasons of conscience.  The online process portal must be designed to ensure that duplicate exemption requests are avoided to the greatest extent possible.  The exemption form used by a student to claim an exemption under the process must contain a statement indicating that the student understands the benefits and risks of the immunization and the benefits and risks of not receiving the immunization.(d-4)  A public junior college may require an entering student to use the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3) as the exclusive method to apply for an exemption from the vaccination required under this section for reasons of conscience.(d-5)  The Department of State Health Services shall report to the legislature annually the number of exemptions applied for in the preceding academic year using the Internet-based process under Subsection (d-3).(d-6)  An institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education shall provide, with the registration materials that the institution provides to a student to whom this section applies before the student's initial enrollment in the institution, written notice of the right of the student or of a parent or guardian of the student to claim an exemption from the vaccination requirement in the manner prescribed by Subsection (d) and of the importance of consulting a physician about the need for immunization to prevent the disease.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education and private or independent institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for the administration of this section, including rules establishing the date by which a student who is required to comply with Subsection (c) must have received the vaccination required by that subsection, which may not be later than the 10th day before the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls unless the student is granted an extension by the institution as provided by the rules adopted under this subsection.  The rules must authorize an institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education to extend the compliance date for an individual student to a date that is not later than the 10th day after the first day of the semester or other term in which the student initially enrolls.(f)  In this section, "public junior college" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9193.  REQUIRED POSTING OF MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES.  (a) In this section, "local mental health authority" has the meaning assigned by Section 531.002, Health and Safety Code.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(c)  Each institution to which this section applies shall:(1)  create a web page on the institution's Internet website that:(A)  is dedicated solely to information regarding the mental health resources available to students at the institution, regardless of whether the resources are provided by the institution; and(B)  includes the address of the nearest local mental health authority; and(2)  maintain a conspicuous link on the institution's Internet website home page to the web page described by Subdivision (1).(d)  Not later than August 1 of each year, the president or the president's designee of an institution to which this section applies shall certify to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board the institution's compliance with this section.
Sec. 51.9194.  REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR ENTERING STUDENTS REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH AND SUICIDE PREVENTION SERVICES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education shall provide to each entering undergraduate, graduate, or professional student, including each undergraduate, graduate, or professional student who transfers to the institution, information about:(1)  available mental health and suicide prevention services offered by the institution or by any associated organizations or programs; and(2)  early warning signs that are often present in and appropriate intervention for a person who may be considering suicide.(c)  The information required under this section:(1)  may be provided through:(A)  a live presentation; or(B)  a format that allows for student interaction, such as an online program or video;(2)  may not be provided in a paper format only; and(3)  must include a campus map identifying any location at which mental health services are provided to students on campus and information regarding how to access the services.(d)  If an institution of higher education provides a tour during an on-campus orientation for entering students, the tour must identify at least one location described by Subsection (c)(3) that is available for use by all students of the institution.
Sec. 51.91941.  SUICIDE PREVENTION INFORMATION REQUIRED ON STUDENT IDENTIFICATION CARD.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each student identification card issued by an institution of higher education:(1)  must have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; and(B)  the Crisis Text Line; and(2)  may have printed on the card the contact information for:(A)  the campus police department or security for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a campus police department or security, a local nonemergency police contact;(B)  the campus health clinic for the campus at which the student to whom the card is issued regularly attends classes or, if the campus does not have a health clinic, a local health clinic; and(C)  a local suicide prevention hotline, if available.
Sec. 51.9195.  INFORMATION FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS REGARDING BENEFITS OF TIMELY GRADUATION.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" and "public state college" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a general academic teaching institution other than a public state college.(c)  An institution to which this section applies shall provide to each first-time entering undergraduate student, including each undergraduate student who transfers to the institution, information in electronic or paper format that includes, based on a reasonable projection by the institution using the most recently available data:(1)  a comparison of the average total amounts of tuition and fees paid by a full-time student who graduates from the institution in the following number of academic years:(A)  four years;(B)  five years; and(C)  six years; and(2)  an estimate of the average earnings lost by a recent graduate of the institution as a result of graduating after five or six years instead of four years.(d)  An institution to which this section applies shall include with the information provided to a student under Subsection (c):(1)  a list of actions that the student can take to facilitate graduating from the institution in a timely manner; and(2)  contact information for available academic, career, and other related support services at the institution to assist the student in that effort.(e)  An institution to which this section applies may satisfy the requirements of Subsections (c)(1) and (2) with regard to a student by providing the student with information that is more specific than the information described by those subdivisions.
Sec. 51.921.  POSTING OF STEROID LAW NOTICE.  Each public institution of higher education shall post in a conspicuous location in each gymnasium at the institution the following notice:Anabolic steroids and growth hormones are for medical use only.  State law prohibits the possession, dispensing, delivery, or administering of an anabolic steroid or growth hormone in any manner not allowed by state law.  State law provides that body building, muscle enhancement, or increasing muscle bulk or strength through the use of an anabolic steroid by a person who is in good health is not a valid medical purpose.  Only a medical doctor may prescribe an anabolic steroid or human growth hormone for a person.  A violation of state law concerning anabolic steroids or human growth hormones is a criminal offense punishable by confinement in jail or imprisonment in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.
Sec. 51.923.  QUALIFICATIONS OF CERTAIN BUSINESS ENTITIES TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Business entity" means any entity recognized by law through which business is conducted, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, or trust.(2)  "Governing board" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Nonprofit corporation" means any organization exempt from federal income tax under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that does not distribute any part of its income to any member, director, or officer.(b)  A nonprofit corporation is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education also serves as a member, director, officer, or employee of the nonprofit corporation.(c)  A business entity is not disqualified from entering into a contract or other transaction with an institution of higher education even though one or more members of the governing board of the institution of higher education have an interest in the business entity, subject to Subsection (d).(d)  An institution of higher education is not prohibited from entering into a contract or other transaction with a business entity in which a member of the governing board of the institution of higher education has an interest if the interest is not a substantial interest or, if the interest is a substantial interest, the board member discloses that interest in a meeting held in compliance with Chapter 551, Government Code, and refrains from voting on the contract or transaction requiring board approval.  Any such contract or transaction requiring board approval must be approved by an affirmative majority of the board members voting on the contract or transaction.(e)  For purposes of this section, a member of a governing board has a substantial interest in a business entity if:(1)  the member owns one percent or more of the voting stock or shares of the business entity or owns either one percent or more or $15,000 or more of the fair market value of the business entity;(2)  funds received by the member from the business entity exceed one percent of the member's gross income for the previous year;(3)  the member is an officer of the business entity or a member of the governing board of the business entity; or(4)  an individual related to the member in the first degree by consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Chapter 573, Government Code, has an interest in the business entity as described by Subdivision (1), (2), or (3).(f)  A violation of this section does not render an action of the governing board voidable unless the contract or transaction that was the subject of the action would not have been approved by the governing board without the vote of the member who violated this section.
Sec. 51.9241.  ADMISSION OF STUDENT WITH NONTRADITIONAL SECONDARY EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Nontraditional secondary education" means a course of study at the secondary school level in a nonaccredited private school setting, including a home school.(b)  Because the State of Texas considers successful completion of a nontraditional secondary education to be equivalent to graduation from a public high school, an institution of higher education must treat an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education according to the same general standards, including specific standardized testing score requirements, as other applicants for undergraduate admission who have graduated from a public high school.(c)  An institution of higher education may not require an applicant for admission to the institution as an undergraduate student who presents evidence that the person has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education to:(1)  obtain or submit evidence that the person has obtained a general education development certificate, certificate of high school equivalency, or other credentials equivalent to a public high school degree;  or(2)  take an examination or comply with any other application or admission requirement not generally applicable to other applicants for undergraduate admission to the institution.(d)  If an institution of higher education in its undergraduate admission review process sorts applicants by high school graduating class rank, the institution shall place any applicant who presents evidence that the applicant has successfully completed a nontraditional secondary education that does not include a high school graduating class ranking at the average high school graduating class rank of undergraduate applicants to the institution who have equivalent standardized testing scores as the applicant.
Sec. 51.9242.  READMISSION OF STUDENT WHO WITHDRAWS TO PERFORM ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.  (a)  This section applies only to a student who withdraws from an institution of higher education to perform active military service as a member of the United States armed forces or the Texas National Guard, except that this section does not apply to a student who withdraws from an institution solely to perform one or more training exercises as a member of the Texas National Guard.(b)  For any academic term that begins after the date a student described by Subsection (a) is released from active military service but not later than the first anniversary of that date, the institution of higher education from which the student withdrew shall readmit the student, without requiring reapplication or charging a fee for readmission, if the student is otherwise eligible to register for classes at the institution.  On readmission of the student under this subsection, the institution shall:(1)  provide to the student any financial assistance previously provided by the institution to the student before the student's withdrawal if the student meets current eligibility requirements for the assistance, other than any requirement directly affected by the student's service, such as continuous enrollment or another similar timing requirement; and(2)  allow the student the same academic status that the student had before the student's withdrawal, including any course credit awarded to the student by the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules requiring reasonable proof from a student of the fact and duration of the student's active military service.
Sec. 51.9245.  ADMISSION OF PERSON RECEIVING ATHLETIC SCHOLARSHIP.  (a)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A general academic teaching institution may not admit an applicant who has been promised or granted an athletic scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance conditioned on the student's participation in a sport, game, or other competition involving substantial physical ability or physical skill for or on a team organized or sponsored by the general academic teaching institution that is funded by state funds unless:(1)  if the general academic teaching institution requires a minimum high school grade point average as an admissions criterion for any entering freshman, that minimum applies to all freshmen being admitted;  or(2)  for an applicant other than an entering freshman, the applicant's cumulative college-level grade point average is equal to or greater than the minimum cumulative college-level grade point average required for an undergraduate student to remain enrolled at the institution in the preceding academic year.
Sec. 51.9246.  COMPENSATION AND PROFESSIONAL REPRESENTATION OF STUDENT ATHLETES PARTICIPATING IN INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athlete agent" has the meaning assigned by Section 2051.001, Occupations Code.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" and "private or independent institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Honor code" means a set of rules or principles governing an academic community to which a student agrees to abide when attending an institution to which this section applies.(4)  "Institutional contract" means a contract between an institution to which this section applies or its designated representative and an external party that includes a sponsorship agreement governing the use of the institution's trademarks in connection with athletics.(5)  "Team contract" means a contract between a student athlete and an institution to which this section applies and includes any rules or expectations of the institution's athletic department or head coach that require a student athlete's compliance as a condition under the contract of participation as a member of the intercollegiate athletic program.(a-1)  For purposes of this section, official team activities of an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies include any activity the institution designates as an official team activity.(b)  This section applies only to:(1)  a general academic teaching institution; or(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education.(c)  An institution to which this section applies may not:(1)  adopt or enforce a policy, requirement, standard, or limitation that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution from:(A)  earning compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities, as that term is defined by the institution; or(B)  obtaining professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; or(2)  provide or solicit a prospective student athlete of an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution with compensation in relation to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(c-1)  An athletic association, an athletic conference, or any other group or organization with authority over an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not enforce a contract term, a rule, a regulation, a standard, or any other requirement that prohibits the institution from participating in intercollegiate athletics or otherwise penalizes the institution or the institution's intercollegiate athletic program for performing, participating in, or allowing an activity required or authorized by this section.(d)  A scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded to a student athlete by an institution to which this section applies that covers the student athlete's cost of attendance at the institution is not compensation for purposes of this section.(e)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies may not be disqualified from eligibility for a scholarship, grant, or similar financial assistance awarded by the institution because the student athlete:(1)  earns compensation from the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities; or(2)  obtains professional representation, including representation by an attorney licensed to practice law in this state, for contracts or other legal matters relating to use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(f)  An institution to which this section applies may not prescribe a team contract for an intercollegiate athletic program that prohibits or otherwise prevents a student athlete from using the student athlete's name, image, or likeness for a commercial purpose when the student athlete is not engaged in official team activities.(g)  A student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at an institution to which this section applies:(1)  shall, before entering into the contract, disclose to the institution, in the manner prescribed by the institution, any proposed contract the student athlete may sign for use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness;(2)  may not enter into a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness if:(A)  any provision of the contract conflicts with a provision of the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution;(B)  the compensation for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is provided:(i)  in exchange for athletic performance or accepting an offer of admission to attend the institution;(ii)  by the institution;(iii)  in exchange for an act that occurs while the athlete is engaged in an official team activity; or(iv)  in exchange for an endorsement of alcohol, tobacco products, e-cigarettes or any other type of nicotine delivery device, anabolic steroids, sports betting, casino gambling, a firearm the student athlete cannot legally purchase, or a sexually oriented business as defined in Section 243.002, Local Government Code; or(C)  the duration of the contract extends beyond the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(3)  is not considered an employee of the institution based on the student athlete's participation in the intercollegiate athletic program;(4)  may earn compensation from selling the student athlete's autograph in a manner that does not otherwise conflict with a provision of this section; and(5)  may not use an institution's facility, uniform, registered trademark, copyright-protected product, or official logo, mark, or other indicia in connection with a contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness unless the student athlete obtains the institution's express permission.(g-1)  The following activities do not constitute compensation provided by an institution to which this section applies under Subsection (g)(2)(B)(ii):(1)  an activity authorized under Subsection (m); or(2)  recognition by an institution to which this section applies of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness, or the entity's donors, including the institution's provision of priority status or other items of de minimis value equivalent to status or items the institution provides to the institution's donors.(g-2)  An institution may not authorize a use described by Subsection (g)(5) unless the institution requires that:(1)  the student athlete and the person contracting for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness comply with any requirements the institution establishes, including requirements related to licensing; and(2)  the institution is compensated for the use in an amount consistent with market rates.(h)  An institution to which this section applies that identifies a provision in a contract disclosed to the institution by a student athlete under Subsection (g)(1) that conflicts with a provision in the student athlete's team contract, a provision of an institutional contract of the institution, a policy of the athletic department of the institution, or a provision of the honor code of the institution shall promptly disclose the conflict to the student athlete or the student athlete's representative, if applicable.  The student athlete or the student athlete's representative is responsible for resolving the conflict not later than the 10th day after the date of the disclosure.(i)  An institution to which this section applies shall require a student athlete participating in an intercollegiate athletic program at the institution to attend a financial literacy and life skills course during the student's first academic year at the institution.  The course must be at least five hours in duration and include information on financial aid, debt management, time management, budgeting, and academic resources available to the student athlete.  The institution may not during the course allow any provider of financial products or services to:(1)  market, advertise, or refer the provider's services to a student athlete; or(2)  solicit a student athlete to use the provider's services.(j)  No individual, corporate entity, or other organization may:(1)  enter into any arrangement with a prospective student athlete relating to the prospective student athlete's name, image, or likeness prior to their enrollment in an institution of higher education; or(2)  use inducements of future name, image, and likeness compensation arrangement to recruit a prospective student athlete to any institution of higher education.(k)  Nothing in this section may be construed as permitting an athlete agent to take any action prohibited under Section 2051.351, Occupations Code.(l)  Information written, produced, collected, assembled, or maintained by an institution to which this section applies that includes or reveals any term of a contract or proposed contract for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness is confidential and excepted from required public disclosure in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.  An institution to which this section applies may withhold information described by this subsection without requesting a decision from the attorney general under Subchapter G, Chapter 552, Government Code.(m)  An institution to which this section applies or third-party entity acting on the institution's behalf, or employee of the institution or third-party entity:(1)  may identify, create, facilitate, or otherwise assist with opportunities for a currently enrolled student athlete to earn compensation from a third party for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness; and(2)  may not, in assisting a student athlete as described by Subdivision (1):(A)  act as an athlete agent for the student athlete;(B)  be compensated by the student athlete or third party for providing the assistance;(C)  attempt to influence the student athlete's choice of professional representation in connection with an opportunity; or(D)  attempt to diminish the student athlete's opportunities from competing third parties.(n)  A charitable organization exempt from taxation under Section 501(a), Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as an organization described by Section 501(c)(3) of that code, may compensate a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness.(o)  An activity of a third-party entity that compensates a student athlete for the use of the student athlete's name, image, or likeness may not be construed as an act on behalf of an institution to which this section applies, provided that:(1)  the entity is a separate legal entity from the institution; and(2)  the institution does not own or control the entity.(p)  This section may not be construed as creating a cause of action against an institution or an institution's officers or employees relating to a student athlete's name, image, or likeness.
Sec. 51.925.  RELIGIOUS HOLY DAYS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not discriminate against or penalize in any way a member of the faculty of the institution who is absent from work for the observance of a religious holy day and gives proper notice of that absence if the customary and generally applicable educational practices of the institution permit general personal absence by members of the faculty. If personal absence is customarily penalized, the penalty for absence due to observance of a religious holy day under this section shall be forfeiture of one day's pay equivalent for each day of absence.(b)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code, except that the term includes the Southwest College for the Deaf and Texas State Technical College System.(c)  In this section, "proper notice" means that the faculty member shall provide a listing of religious holy days to be observed during the semester to the chairman of the department and shall provide notice of such days in advance to all students whose class would be canceled due to the faculty member's absence.  Notice herein shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered to the chairman of the department, receipt therefor being acknowledged and dated by the chairman, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the chairman.(d)  In this section, "religious holy day" means a holy day observed by a religion whose places of worship are exempt from property taxation under Section 11.20, Tax Code.
Sec. 51.926.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR QUALIFIED RETIREMENT PLANS.  (a)  On written authorization from a football coach who is entitled to participate in a qualified football coaches plan, an institution of higher education may:(1)  enter into a salary reduction agreement under which the salary of the coach is reduced by the amount of contribution to the plan;  and(2)  remit such contribution to the plan for credit to the coach's plan account.(b)  A person who participates in a qualified football coaches plan may also participate in another retirement plan or be a member of a retirement system established by law for employees of institutions of higher education.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "Qualified football coaches plan" means a retirement plan under Title 29 U.S.C. Section 1002(37)(F).
Sec. 51.927.  ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS.(a)  In this section, "energy savings performance contract" has the meaning assigned by Section 302.001, Local Government Code.(b)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an energy savings performance contract in accordance with this section.(c)  Each energy or water conservation measure must comply with current local, state, and federal construction, plumbing, and environmental codes and regulations.  Notwithstanding Subsection (a), an energy savings performance contract may not include improvements or equipment that allow or cause water from any condensing, cooling, or industrial process or any system of nonpotable usage over which the public water supply system officials do not have sanitary control, to be returned to the potable water supply.(d)  The board may enter into energy savings performance contracts only with entities that are experienced in the design, implementation, and installation of the energy or water conservation measures addressed by the contract.(e)  Before entering into an energy savings performance contract, the board shall require the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to file with the board a payment and performance bond in accordance with Chapter 2253, Government Code.  The board may also require a separate bond to cover the value of the guaranteed savings on the contract.(f)  The board may enter into an energy savings performance contract for a period of more than one year only if the board finds that the amount the institution would spend on the energy or water conservation measures will not exceed the amount to be saved in energy, water, wastewater, and operating costs over 20 years from the date of installation.  If the term of the contract exceeds one year, the institution's contractual obligation in any year during the term of the contract beginning after the final date of installation may not exceed the total energy, water, wastewater, and operating cost savings, including electrical, gas, water, wastewater, or other utility cost savings and operating cost savings resulting from the measures, as determined by the board in this subsection, divided by the number of years in the contract term beginning after the final date of installation.  The board shall consider all costs of the energy or water conservation measures, including costs of design, engineering, installation, maintenance, repairs, and debt service.(g)  An energy savings performance contract may be financed:(1)  under a lease/purchase contract that has a term not to exceed 20 years from the final date of installation and that meets federal tax requirements for tax-free municipal leasing or long-term financing, including a lease/purchase contract under the master equipment lease purchase program administered by the Texas Public Finance Authority under Chapter 1232, Government Code;(2)  with the proceeds of bonds; or(3)  under a contract with the provider of the energy or water conservation measures that has a term not to exceed the lesser of 20 years from the final date of installation or the average useful life of the energy or water conservation or usage measures.(g-1)  Notwithstanding other law, the board may use any available money to pay the provider of the energy or water conservation measures under this section, and the board is not required to pay for such costs solely out of the savings realized by the institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract.  The board may contract with the provider to perform work that is related to, connected with, or otherwise ancillary to the measures identified in the scope of an energy savings performance contract.(h)  An energy savings performance contract shall contain provisions requiring the provider of the energy or water conservation measures to guarantee the amount of the savings to be realized by the institution of higher education under the contract.(i)  An energy savings performance contract shall be let according to the procedures established for procuring certain professional services by Section 2254.004, Government Code.  Notice of the request for qualifications shall be given in the manner provided by Section 2156.002, Government Code.  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with the State Energy Conservation Office with regard to energy and water conservation measures, shall establish guidelines and an approval process for awarding energy savings performance contracts.  The guidelines must require that the cost savings projected by an offeror be reviewed by a licensed professional engineer who has a minimum of three years of experience in energy calculation and review, is not an officer or employee of an offeror for the contract under review, and is not otherwise associated with the contract.  In conducting the review, the engineer shall focus primarily on the proposed improvements from an engineering perspective, the methodology and calculations related to cost savings, increases in revenue, and, if applicable, efficiency or accuracy of metering equipment.  An engineer who reviews a contract shall maintain the confidentiality of any proprietary information the engineer acquires while reviewing the contract.  A contract is not required to be reviewed or approved by the State Energy Conservation Office.  Sections 1001.053 and 1001.407, Occupations Code, apply to work performed under the contract.(j)  The legislature shall base an institution's appropriation for energy, water, and wastewater costs during a fiscal year on the sum of:(1)  the institution's estimated energy, water, and wastewater costs for that fiscal year;  and(2)  if an energy savings performance contract is in effect, the institution's estimated net savings resulting from the contract during the contract term, divided by the number of years in the contract term.(k)  Chapter 2269, Government Code, does not apply to this section.(l)  The guidelines established under Subsection (i) must require the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to:(1)  review any reports submitted to the board that measure and verify cost savings to an institution of higher education under an energy savings performance contract; and(2)  based on the reports, provide an analysis, on a periodic basis, of the cost savings under the energy savings performance contract to the governing board of the institution of higher education and the Legislative Budget Board until the governing board of the institution of higher education determines that the analysis is no longer required to accurately measure cost savings.
Added by Acts 1991, 72nd Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 8, Sec. 3.07, eff. Sept. 1, 1991.  Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 76, Sec. 5.95(92), eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 773, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 165, Sec. 17.19, eff. Sept. 1, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1142, Sec. 2, eff. June 19, 1997;  Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 627, Sec. 1, eff. June 11, 1997;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 62, Sec. 4.03, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 361, Sec. 2, eff. Sept;  1, 1999;  Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1450, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;  ;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 573, Sec. 3, 4, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1319, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 2001;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1310, Sec. 6, 121(2), eff. June 20, 2003.Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 527 (S.B. 831), Sec. 2, eff. June 16, 2007.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 982 (H.B. 1728), Sec. 3, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1129 (H.B. 628), Sec. 3.02, eff. September 1, 2011.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 161 (S.B. 1093), Sec. 22.002(7), eff. September 1, 2013.Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 537 (S.B. 533), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 258 (H.B. 1571), Sec. 2, eff. May 29, 2017.
Sec. 51.929.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT BY CERTAIN RETAIL STORES.  (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this section, a retail store that is owned or operated by an institution of higher education may not enter into a transaction for the sale or lease of goods or services in which the institution extends the credit of the state to the obligor.(b)  This section does not apply to an extension of credit to a student for the purchase of books or other educational supplies if the credit may be offset against undistributed grant or loan funds that are held by the institution for the student or that the institution is entitled to receive on behalf of the student.  The institution may not withhold grant or loan funds to require the student to purchase books or educational supplies from a store that it owns or operates.(c)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.
Sec. 51.930.  NATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 of this code.(2)  "National student exchange program" means the program administered by the National Student Exchange, a nonprofit corporation.(b)  General academic teaching institutions may participate in the national student exchange program for the purpose of providing reciprocal educational opportunities for undergraduate students of colleges and universities in the United States.(c)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules relating to the participation of institutions of higher education and students in the national student exchange program.(d)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 54.051 of this code, a nonresident exchange student participating in the program may be charged the resident tuition rate during the period of participation in the program.(e)  A student participating in the program from another state shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 51.306 of this code unless that student becomes a degree-seeking undergraduate student at a Texas public institution of higher education.(f)  A student may not participate in the program for more than one year.
Sec. 51.931.  RIGHT TO AN ACADEMIC FRESH START.  (a)  This section applies to any public institution of higher education as defined in Section 61.003 of this code.(b)  Unless otherwise prohibited by law, a resident of this state is entitled to apply for admission to and enroll as an undergraduate student in any public institution of higher education under this section.(c)  If an applicant elects to seek admission under this section, a public institution of higher education, in considering the applicant for admission, shall not consider academic course credits or grades earned by the applicant 10 or more years prior to the starting date of the semester in which the applicant seeks to enroll.  An applicant who makes the election to apply under this section and is admitted as a student may not receive any course credit for courses undertaken 10 or more years prior to enrollment under this section.(d)  If a student who enrolls under this section completes a prescribed course of study, earns a baccalaureate degree, and applies for admission to a postgraduate or professional program offered by a public institution of higher education, the institution, in considering the applicant for admission into the postgraduate or professional program, shall consider only the grade point average of the applicant established by the course work completed after enrollment under this section, along with any other criteria the institution uses in evaluating applicants for admission into the postgraduate or professional program.(e)  Nothing in this section prohibits a public institution of higher education from applying standard admissions criteria generally applicable to persons seeking admission to the institution.
Sec. 51.9315.  PROTECTED EXPRESSION ON CAMPUS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Benefit" includes:(A)  recognition by or registration with an institution of higher education;(B)  the use of an institution of higher education's facilities for meetings or speaking purposes;(C)  the use of channels of communication controlled by an institution of higher education; and(D)  funding sources made generally available to student organizations at an institution of higher education.(2)  "Expressive activities" means any speech or expressive conduct protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or by Section 8, Article I, Texas Constitution, and includes assemblies, protests, speeches, the distribution of written material, the carrying of signs, and the circulation of petitions.  The term does not include commercial speech.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at an institution of higher education and that receives a benefit from the institution.(b)  It is the policy of this state and the purpose of this section to protect the expressive rights of persons guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States and of this state by:(1)  recognizing freedom of speech and assembly as central to the mission of institutions of higher education; and(2)  ensuring that all persons may assemble peaceably on the campuses of institutions of higher education for expressive activities, including to listen to or observe the expressive activities of others.(c)  An institution of higher education shall:(1)  ensure that the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus are deemed traditional public forums; and(2)  permit any person to engage in expressive activities in those areas of the institution's campus freely, as long as the person's conduct:(A)  is not unlawful; and(B)  does not materially and substantially disrupt the functioning of the institution.(d)  Notwithstanding Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may adopt a policy that imposes reasonable restrictions on the time, place, and manner of expressive activities in the common outdoor areas of the institution's campus if those restrictions:(1)  are narrowly tailored to serve a significant institutional interest;(2)  employ clear, published, content-neutral, and viewpoint-neutral criteria;(3)  provide for ample alternative means of expression; and(4)  allow members of the university community to assemble or distribute written material without a permit or other permission from the institution.(e)  Subsections (c) and (d) do not:(1)  limit the right of student expression at other campus locations; or(2)  prohibit faculty members from maintaining order in the classroom.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy detailing students' rights and responsibilities regarding expressive activities at the institution.  The policy must:(1)  allow:(A)  any person to, subject to reasonable restrictions adopted under Subsection (d), engage in expressive activities on campus, including by responding to the expressive activities of others; and(B)  student organizations and faculty to, subject to Subsection (h), invite speakers to speak on campus;(2)  establish disciplinary sanctions for students, student organizations, or faculty who unduly interfere with the expressive activities of others on campus;(3)  include a grievance procedure for addressing complaints of a violation of this section;(4)  be approved by a majority vote of the institution's governing board before final adoption; and(5)  be posted on the institution's Internet website.(g)  An institution of higher education may not take action against a student organization or deny the organization any benefit generally available to other student organizations at the institution on the basis of a political, religious, philosophical, ideological, or academic viewpoint expressed by the organization or of any expressive activities of the organization.(h)  In determining whether to approve a speaker to speak on campus or in determining the amount of a fee to be charged for use of the institution's facilities for purposes of engaging in expressive activities, an institution of higher education:(1)  may consider only content-neutral and viewpoint-neutral criteria related to the needs of the event, such as:(A)  the proposed venue and the expected size of the audience;(B)  any anticipated need for campus security;(C)  any necessary accommodations; and(D)  any relevant history of compliance or noncompliance by the requesting student organization or faculty member with the institution's policy adopted under Subsection (f) and any other relevant policies; and(2)  may not consider any anticipated controversy related to the event.(i)  Each institution of higher education shall make the institution's policies adopted in accordance with this section available to students enrolled at and employees of the institution by:(1)  including the policies in the institution's student handbook and personnel handbook;(2)  providing a copy of each policy to students during the institution's freshman or transfer student orientation; and(3)  posting the policies on the institution's Internet website.(j)  Each institution of higher education shall develop materials, programs, and procedures to ensure that the institution's employees responsible for educating or disciplining students understand the requirements of this section and all policies adopted by the institution in accordance with this section.
Sec. 51.932.  MOTOR VEHICLES OWNED AND USED BY STATE-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONS.  (a)  A motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer that is the property of and used exclusively by any institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 must have the name of the institution printed on the side of the vehicle.  The inscription must be in a color sufficiently different from the body of the vehicle and must be of letters of sufficient height so that the lettering is plainly legible at a distance of not less than 100 feet.  This subsection does not apply to a motor vehicle used by:(1)  a peace officer commissioned under Subchapter E;  or(2)  a chancellor or president of an institution of higher education.(b)  A person commits an offense if the person operates a vehicle subject to Subsection (a) without the proper inscription.  An offense under this subsection is a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.9325.  RETIREMENT INCENTIVES.  (a)  A medical and dental unit may offer a retirement incentive to an employee of the unit who is eligible to retire under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(b)  A medical and dental unit offering a retirement incentive plan shall file the plan with the Legislative Budget Board not later than the 61st day before the date the plan is implemented and shall provide the board with any information concerning the plan required by the board.(c)  A medical and dental unit may not rehire an employee receiving a retirement incentive under this section without the specific approval of the president of the unit.  The president may not delegate this responsibility to any other employee of the unit.(d)  A retirement incentive offered to an employee by a medical and dental unit under this section must be paid from institutional funds or hospital or clinic fees.(e)  A retirement incentive paid by a medical and dental unit to an employee is not subject to any provision of state law that entitles the employee to benefits based on salary or compensation, including contributions under Subtitle C, Title 8, Government Code.(f)  In this section:(1)  "Institutional funds" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.009(b).(2)  "Medical and dental unit" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.
Sec. 51.933.  IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS;  EXCEPTION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may require applicants for admission to be immunized against diphtheria, rubeola, rubella, mumps, tetanus, and poliomyelitis, except as provided in Subsection (d).(b)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission may require immunizations against the diseases listed in Subsection (a) and additional diseases for students at any institution of higher education who are pursuing a course of study in a human or animal health profession, and the executive commissioner may require those immunizations for any students in times of an emergency or epidemic in a county where the commissioner of state health services has declared such an emergency or epidemic.(b-1)  A rule adopted under Subsection (b) that requires a hepatitis B vaccination for students may apply only to students enrolled in a course of study that involves potential exposure to human or animal blood or bodily fluids.(c)  An institution of higher education, in conjunction with the Department of State Health Services, should provide individual notice to each student applying for admission regarding:(1)  the consequences of not being current on immunization for certain diseases;(2)  the age groups most vulnerable to these vaccine preventable diseases;  and(3)  local providers of immunization services.(d)  No form of immunization is required for a person's admission to an institution of higher education if the person applying for admission:(1)  submits to the admitting official:(A)  an affidavit or a certificate signed by a physician who is duly registered and licensed to practice medicine within the United States in which it is stated that, in the physician's opinion, the immunization required poses a significant risk to the health and well-being of the applicant or any member of the applicant's family or household;  or(B)  an affidavit signed by the applicant or, if a minor, by the applicant's parent or guardian stating that the applicant declines immunization for reasons of conscience, including a religious belief;  or(2)  is a member of the armed forces of the United States and is on active duty.(d-1)  An affidavit submitted under Section (d)(1)(B) must be on a form described by Section 161.0041, Health and Safety Code, and must be submitted to the admitting official not later than the 90th day after the date the affidavit is notarized.(e)  The exception provided by Subsection (d)(1)(B) does not apply in a time of emergency or epidemic declared by the commissioner of state health services.
Sec. 51.9335.  ACQUISITION OF GOODS AND SERVICES.  (a)  An institution of higher education may acquire goods or services by the method that provides the best value to the institution, including:(1)  competitive bidding;(2)  competitive sealed proposals;(3)  a catalogue purchase;(4)  a group purchasing program;  or(5)  an open market contract.(b)  In determining what is the best value to an institution of higher education, the institution shall consider:(1)  the purchase price;(2)  the reputation of the vendor and of the vendor's goods or services;(3)  the quality of the vendor's goods or services;(4)  the extent to which the goods or services meet the institution's needs;(5)  the vendor's past relationship with the institution;(6)  the impact on the ability of the institution to comply with laws and rules relating to historically underutilized businesses and to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities;(7)  the total long-term cost to the institution of acquiring the vendor's goods or services;(8)  any other relevant factor that a private business entity would consider in selecting a vendor;  and(9)  the use of material in construction or repair to real property that is not proprietary to a single vendor unless the institution provides written justification in the request for bids for use of the unique material specified.(c)  The state auditor may audit purchases of goods or services by an institution of higher education or by a component of an institution of higher education that purchases goods and services.(d)  Subject to Section 51.9337, Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Subchapter B, Chapter 2254, Government Code, do not apply to the acquisition of goods and services under this section, except that an institution of higher education must comply with any provision of those laws, or a rule adopted under a provision of those laws, relating to contracting with historically underutilized businesses or relating to the procurement of goods and services from persons with disabilities.  An institution of higher education may, but is not required to, acquire goods or services as provided by Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code.(e)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003 and includes a school of veterinary medicine and a health care facility operated by a medical and dental unit, except that the term does not include The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center or a public junior college.(f)  This section does not apply to professional services as defined by Section 2254.002, Government Code.  Professional services shall be procured in accordance with Subchapter A, Chapter 2254, Government Code.(g)  An institution of higher education may adopt rules and procedures for the acquisition of goods or services.(h)  In any contract for the acquisition of goods and services to which an institution of higher education is a party, a provision required by applicable law to be included in the contract is considered to be a part of the executed contract without regard to:(1)  whether the provision appears on the face of the contract; or(2)  whether the contract includes any provision to the contrary.
Sec. 51.9337.  PURCHASING AUTHORITY CONDITIONAL; REQUIRED STANDARDS.  (a)  An institution of higher education may not exercise the acquisition authority granted by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 unless the institution complies with this section.  An institution that is determined under Subsection (j) to not be in compliance with this section is subject to the laws governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code.(b)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education by rule shall establish for each institution under the management and control of the board:(1)  a code of ethics for the institution's officers and employees, including provisions governing officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, subject to Subsection (c);(2)  policies for the internal investigation of suspected defalcation, misappropriation, and other fiscal irregularities and an institutional or systemwide compliance program designed to promote ethical behavior and ensure compliance with all applicable policies, laws, and rules governing higher education, including research and health care to the extent applicable;(3)  a contract management handbook that provides consistent contracting policies and practices and contract review procedures, including a risk analysis procedure, subject to Subsection (d);(4)  contracting delegation guidelines, subject to Subsections (e) and (f);(5)  training for officers and employees authorized to execute contracts for the institution or to exercise discretion in awarding contracts, including training in ethics, selection of appropriate procurement methods, and information resources purchasing technologies; and(6)  internal audit protocols, subject to Subsection (g).(c)  The code of ethics governing an institution of higher education must include:(1)  general standards of conduct and a statement that each officer or employee is expected to obey all federal, state, and local laws and is subject to disciplinary action for a violation of those laws;(2)  policies governing conflicts of interest, conflicts of commitment, and outside activities, ensuring that the primary responsibility of officers and employees is to accomplish the duties and responsibilities assigned to that position;(3)  a conflict of interest policy that prohibits employees from having a direct or indirect financial or other interest, engaging in a business transaction or professional activity, or incurring any obligation that is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of the employee's duties related to the public interest;(4)  a conflict of commitment policy that prohibits an employee's activities outside the institution from interfering with the employee's duties and responsibilities to the institution;(5)  a policy governing an officer's or employee's outside activities, including compensated employment and board service, that clearly delineates the nature and amount of permissible outside activities and that includes processes for disclosing the outside activities and for obtaining and documenting institutional approval to perform the activities;(6)  a policy that prohibits an officer or employee from acting as an agent for another person in the negotiation of the terms of an agreement relating to the provision of money, services, or property to the institution;(7)  a policy governing the use of institutional resources; and(8)  a policy providing for the regular training of officers and employees on the policies described by this subsection.(d)  An institution of higher education shall establish contract review procedures and a contract review checklist that must be reviewed and approved by the institution's legal counsel before implementation.  The review procedures and checklist must include:(1)  a description of each step of the procedure that an institution must use to evaluate and process contracts;(2)  a checklist that describes each process that must be completed before contract execution; and(3)  a value threshold that initiates the required review by the institution's legal counsel unless the contract is a standard contract previously approved by the counsel.(e)  An institution of higher education's policies governing contracting authority must clearly specify the types and values of contracts that must be approved by the board of regents and the types and values of contracts for which contracting authority is delegated by the board to the chief executive officer and by the chief executive officer to other officers and employees of the institution.  An officer or employee may not execute a document for the board unless the officer or employee has authority to act for the board and the authority is exercised in compliance with applicable conditions and restrictions.(f)  An institution of higher education may not enter into a contract with a value of more than $1 million, including any amendment, extension, or renewal of the contract that increases the value of the original contract to more than $1 million, unless the institution's board of regents approves the contract, expressly delegates authority to exceed that amount, or expressly adopts an exception for that contract.  The board must approve any amendment, extension, or renewal of a contract with a value that exceeds 25 percent of the value of the original contract approved by the board unless the authority to exceed the approved amount is expressly delegated by the board or an exception is expressly adopted by the board for that contract.(g)  The board of regents of an institution of higher education shall adopt standards for internal audits conducted by the institution to provide a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the institution's risk management, control, and governance processes related to contracts and to require risk-based testing of contract administration.  The internal auditor must have full and unrestricted access to all institutional property, personnel, and records.  An internal auditor must report directly to the board of regents in accordance with Chapter 2102, Government Code.(h)  The chief auditor of an institution of higher education shall annually assess whether the institution has adopted the rules and policies required by this section and shall submit a report of findings to the state auditor.  In auditing the purchase of goods and services by the institution, the state auditor shall determine whether an institution has adopted the required rules and policies.(i)  If the state auditor determines that an institution of higher education has failed to adopt the required rules and policies, the auditor shall report that failure to the legislature and to the institution's board of regents and shall, in consultation with the institution, adopt a remediation plan to bring the institution into compliance.  If the institution fails to comply within the time established by the state auditor, the auditor shall find the institution to be in noncompliance and report that finding to the legislature and comptroller.(j)  In accordance with a schedule adopted by the state auditor in consultation with the comptroller, the authority of an institution of higher education to acquire goods and services as provided by Section 51.9335 or 73.115 is suspended if the institution fails to comply with the remediation plan under Subsection (i) within the time established by the state auditor.  As a result of the suspension, the laws, including Subtitle D, Title 10, Government Code, and Chapter 2254, Government Code, governing acquisition of goods and services by state agencies from which the institution is otherwise exempt, shall apply to the institution's acquisition of goods and services.
Sec. 51.934.  ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, OR PLEDGE OF COMPENSATION.  (a)  In this section, "employee" means any person employed by an institution of higher education in an executive, administrative, or clerical capacity or as a professor or instructor or in any similar capacity.(b)  An employee's assignment, pledge, or transfer, as security for indebtedness, of any interest in or part of the employee's salary or wages then due or that may become due under an existing contract of employment is enforceable only:(1)  if, before or at the time of execution, delivery, or acceptance of an assignment, pledge, or transfer, written approval is obtained in accordance with the policy of the employing institution;  and(2)  to the extent that the indebtedness it secures is a valid and enforceable obligation.(c)  An institution of higher education shall honor an assignment, pledge, or transfer fulfilling the conditions of Subsection (b) without incurring any liability to the employee executing the assignment, pledge, or transfer.  Payment to any assignee, pledgee, or transferee in accordance with the terms of the instrument is payment to or for the account of the assignor, pledgor, or transferor.  An assignment, pledge, or transfer is enforceable only to the extent of salary due or that may become due during continuation of the assignor's employment as an employee of the institution.(d)  Venue for any suit against the employer of an employee to enforce an assignment, pledge, or transfer of salary is in the county where the employing institution is located.
Sec. 51.9355.  ASSISTANCE RELATING TO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS, FINANCIAL AID, AND TESTING.  (a)  The governing board of each general academic teaching institution shall establish an office at the institution to assist applicants, potential applicants, school counselors at the high school level, and other interested persons requesting assistance relating to:(1)  applying for admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution;(2)  applying for financial aid offered by or through the institution or by an office or agency of this state or the United States for attendance as an undergraduate student at the institution;(3)  registering for an examination to be taken in connection with admission to a bachelor's degree program at the institution; or(4)  registering for an examination that may be taken to receive undergraduate course credit at the institution or to determine the skill or placement level of an applicant to or student enrolled in a bachelor's degree program at the institution.(b)  The office may be operated in connection with the admissions office or another existing office of the institution.(c)  This section does not require an institution to assist a person in preparing to take an examination.(d)  In this section, "general academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.9356.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS WHO ARE OR WERE IN FOSTER CARE.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003. (b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who are or were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.  To the extent allowed by state or federal law, the institution shall identify those students from information provided to the institution in admission or financial aid applications or other available resources.(c)  Each semester or other academic term, an institution of higher education shall provide to the institution's liaison officer the names of and information regarding the students described by Subsection (b).(d)  The liaison officer shall provide to the students described by Subsection (b) information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution and any other relevant information to assist the students.(e)  The liaison officer may participate in any training that enables the officer to carry out the officer's duties and coordinate with liaison officers at other educational institutions.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall publicize, including through the institution's Internet website, social media, electronic mail, or other means of communication used by the institution:(1)  the name of and contact information for the institution's liaison officer; and(2)  information regarding support services and other resources available at the institution to the students described by Subsection (b).
Sec. 51.9357.  DESIGNATION OF LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST CERTAIN STUDENTS WHO ARE PARENTS; REPORT.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age.  The liaison officer shall provide to the students information regarding support services and other resources available to the students at the institution, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  parenting and child care resources;(3)  employment assistance;(4)  transportation assistance;(5)  student academic success strategies; and(6)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  Not later than May 1 of each academic year, an institution of higher education shall submit to the coordinating board a report that contains the following information regarding students enrolled at the institution for the current academic year who are the parent or guardian of a child younger than 18 years of age:(1)  the number of those students;(2)  demographic data, including age, race, sex, and ethnicity;(3)  academic data, including full-time or part-time enrollment status and graduation, transfer, and withdrawal rates; and(4)  other data as prescribed by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section, including rules to ensure compliance with federal law regarding confidentiality of student medical or educational information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.), the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.
Sec. 51.9358.  DESIGNATION OF SUPPORT SERVICES LIAISON OFFICER TO ASSIST STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall designate at least one employee of the institution to act as a liaison officer for current or incoming students at the institution. The liaison officer shall provide to the students comprehensive information regarding support services and other resources available to the students, including:(1)  resources to access:(A)  medical and behavioral health coverage and services; and(B)  public benefit programs, including programs related to food security, affordable housing, and housing subsidies;(2)  public benefit program case management assistance and counseling;(3)  parenting and child care resources;(4)  employment assistance;(5)  financial counseling and tax preparation assistance;(6)  transportation assistance;(7)  student academic success strategies; and(8)  any other resources developed by the institution to assist the students.(c)  An institution of higher education may designate under Subsection (b) the same employee to act as liaison officer as the employee designated under Section 51.9356 to act as liaison officer for current and incoming students at the institution who were formerly in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services.
Sec. 51.936.  HAZING.  (a)  Subchapter F, Chapter 37, applies to a postsecondary educational institution under this section in the same manner as that subchapter applies to a public or private high school.(b)  For purposes of this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means:(1)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003;(2)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003; or(3)  a private postsecondary educational institution as defined by Section 61.302.(c)  Not later than the 14th day before the first class day of each fall or spring semester, each postsecondary educational institution shall distribute to each student enrolled at the institution:(1)  a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37; and(2)  a copy of, or an electronic link to a copy of, the report required under Subsection (c-1).(c-1)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall develop and post in a prominent location on the institution's Internet website a report on hazing committed on or off campus by an organization registered with or recognized by the institution.  The report:(1)  must include information regarding each disciplinary action taken by the institution against an organization for hazing, and each conviction of hazing under Section 37.153 by an organization, during the three years preceding the date on which the report is issued or updated, including:(A)  the name of the organization disciplined or convicted;(B)  the date on which the incident occurred or the citation was issued, if applicable;(C)  the date on which the institution's investigation into the incident, if any, was initiated;(D)  a general description of:(i)  the incident;(ii)  the violations of the institution's code of conduct or the criminal charges, as applicable;(iii)  the findings of the institution or court; and(iv)  any sanctions imposed by the institution, or any fines imposed by the court, on the organization; and(E)  the date on which the institution's disciplinary process was resolved or on which the conviction became final;(2)  must be updated to include information regarding each disciplinary process or conviction not later than the 30th day after the date on which the disciplinary process is resolved or the conviction becomes final, as applicable; and(3)  may not include personally identifiable student information and must comply with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g).(c-2)  Each postsecondary educational institution shall provide to each student who attends the institution's student orientation a notice regarding the nature and availability of the report required under Subsection (c-1), including the report's Internet website address.(d)  If the institution publishes a general catalogue, student handbook, or similar publication, it shall publish a summary of the provisions of Subchapter F, Chapter 37, in each edition of the publication.(e)  Section 1.001(a) does not limit the application of this section to postsecondary educational institutions supported in whole or in part by state tax funds.
Sec. 51.9361.  RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS FOR MEMBERS AND ADVISORS OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advisor" means a person who:(A)  serves in an advisory capacity to a student organization to provide guidance to the organization and its members;(B)  is older than 21 years of age; and(C)  is not a student of the postsecondary educational institution at which the student organization is registered.(2)  "Postsecondary educational institution" means:(A)  an institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include a medical and dental unit or other agency of higher education as those terms are defined by that section; and(B)  a private or independent institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003, except that the term does not include:(i)  a health-related institution; or(ii)  an institution that offers only upper-division, graduate-level, or professional courses.(b)  This section applies only to a student organization that is registered at a postsecondary educational institution and that is composed mostly of students enrolled at the institution.  Notwithstanding Section 1.001(a), this section applies to each postsecondary educational institution at which is registered one or more student organizations.(c)  At least once during each academic year, a postsecondary educational institution shall provide a risk management program for members of student organizations registered at the institution.  Any member of a student organization who is not otherwise required to attend may attend the program.(d)  Unless a postsecondary educational institution requires each student organization registered at the institution to have representatives of the organization attend a program under this section, the institution shall adopt a policy that specifies one or more of those student organizations or types of student organizations that are required to have representatives attend.  The selection of student organizations or types of student organizations under the policy must be based on the institution's determination that those organizations or types of organizations could particularly benefit from risk management guidance.  Each advisor who has not previously attended a program under this section and each person serving in a designated officer position of a student organization that is required to have representatives attend a program under this section shall attend the program.  An institution may allow an advisor, other than a faculty or staff member of the institution, to satisfy the attendance requirements prescribed by this subsection through completion of an appropriate computer-based risk assessment program.(e)  For purposes of Subsection (d), the institution may designate not more than four officer positions of a student organization, such as the president, membership chair, risk management chair, social chair, or pledge class or new member chair.  If a student organization does not have an officer position described by this subsection or if an officer position described by Subsection (d) is vacant, the institution shall, to the extent practicable, identify and designate an equivalent officer position, and the person serving in that officer position shall attend the program.(f)  Each advisor or officer required by Subsection (d) to attend a program shall report on the program's contents at a meeting of the full membership of the student organization the advisor or officer represented at the program.(g)  A program under this section may address any issue determined appropriate by the postsecondary educational institution and must address:(1)  possession and use of alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs, including penalties that may be imposed for possession or use;(2)  hazing;(3)  sexual abuse and harassment;(4)  fire and other safety issues, including the possession and use of a firearm or other weapon or of an explosive device;(5)  travel to a destination outside the area in which the institution is located;(6)  behavior at parties and other events held by a student organization;(7)  adoption by a student organization of a risk management policy; and(8)  issues regarding persons with disabilities, including a review of applicable requirements of federal and state law, and any related policies of the institution, for providing reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of students with disabilities, including access to the activities of the student organization.(h)  A postsecondary educational institution shall provide notice of a program under this section to student organizations in the manner determined by the institution.(i)  A postsecondary educational institution shall take attendance at a program provided under this section in the manner determined appropriate by the institution and may, as provided by a policy adopted by the institution, impose reasonable sanctions on a person who is required to attend the program and fails to attend.  The institution shall, until at least the third anniversary of the date of the program, maintain in an appropriate location at the institution a record of that attendance and of notice provided under Subsection (h).
Sec. 51.9362.  OVERDOSE AWARENESS TRAINING FOR RESIDENTIAL ADVISORS AND STUDENT ORGANIZATION OFFICERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Public or private institution of higher education" includes an "institution of higher education" and a "private or independent institution of higher education," as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(2)  "Residential advisor" means a student who is employed by a public or private institution of higher education to serve in an advisory capacity for students living in a residential facility.(3)  "Residential facility" means a residence used exclusively for housing or boarding students or faculty of a public or private institution of higher education.(4)  "Student organization" includes any organization that is composed mostly of students enrolled at a public or private institution of higher education and that:(A)  is registered with the institution;(B)  receives student organization resource fee revenues or other funding from the institution; or(C)  is otherwise recognized as a student organization by the institution.(b)  A public or private institution of higher education that imposes any mandatory training requirements on residential advisors or officers of student organizations must ensure that overdose awareness and appropriate response training is included with that training.
Sec. 51.9364.  CERTAIN NOTATIONS REQUIRED ON STUDENT TRANSCRIPTS.  (a)  In this section, "postsecondary educational institution" means an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  If a student is ineligible to reenroll in a postsecondary educational institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript a notation stating that the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.(c)  If a student withdraws from a postsecondary educational institution pending disciplinary charges that may result in the student becoming ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution may not end the disciplinary process until the institution makes a final determination of responsibility, including, if applicable, a determination of whether the student will be ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason.  If, as a result of the disciplinary process, the student is ineligible to reenroll in the institution for a reason other than an academic or financial reason, the institution shall include on the student's transcript the notation required under Subsection (b).(d)  On request by the student, a postsecondary educational institution may remove from a student's transcript a notation required under this section if:(1)  the student is eligible to reenroll in the institution; or(2)  the institution determines that good cause exists to remove the notation.(e)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.937.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY FOR VOLUNTEERS.  (a)  A volunteer who is serving as a direct service volunteer for an institution of higher education is immune from civil liability for any act that:(1)  is incident to or within the scope of the duties of the volunteer's position;  and(2)  involves the exercise of judgment or discretion on the part of the volunteer.(b)  This section does not apply to the operation, use, or maintenance of a motor vehicle.(c)  This section does not limit the liability of a person for intentional misconduct or gross negligence.(d)  In this section, "volunteer" means a person providing services for or on behalf of an institution of higher education, on the premises of the institution or at an activity related to or sponsored by the institution on or off of the property of the institution, who does not receive compensation in excess of reimbursement for expenses.
Sec. 51.940.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program must allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.  The institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee sufficient to cover the cost of implementation and administration of this program.(d)  An institution of higher education may not administer or sponsor a debit card program for students of the institution that does not conform to this section.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.942.  FACULTY TENURE.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Institution of higher education" means a general academic teaching institution, medical and dental unit, or other agency of higher education, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(3)  "Neglect of duty" means continuing or repeated substantial neglect of professional responsibilities.(4)  "Tenure" means the entitlement of a faculty member of an institution of higher education to continue in the faculty member's academic position unless dismissed by the institution for good cause in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the institution under Subsection (c-1). (b)  Only an institution of higher education's governing board, on the recommendation of the institution's chief executive officer and the university system's chancellor, if applicable, may grant tenure.(c)  The granting of tenure may not be construed to create a property interest in any attribute of a faculty position beyond a faculty member's continuing employment, including his or her regular annual salary and any privileges incident to his or her status as a tenured professor.(c-1)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt policies and procedures regarding tenure.  The policies and procedures must:(1)  address the granting of tenure;(2)  allow for the dismissal of a tenured faculty member at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process, on a determination that:(A)  the faculty member has:(i)  exhibited professional incompetence;(ii)  continually or repeatedly failed to perform duties or meet professional responsibilities of the faculty member's position;(iii)  failed to successfully complete any post-tenure review professional development program;(iv)  engaged in conduct involving moral turpitude that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities;(v)  violated laws or university system or institution policies substantially related to the performance of the faculty member's duties;(vi)  been convicted of a crime affecting the fitness of the faculty member to engage in teaching, research, service, outreach, or administration;(vii)  engaged in unprofessional conduct that adversely affects the institution or the faculty member's performance of duties or meeting of responsibilities; or(viii)  falsified the faculty member's academic credentials;(B)  there is actual financial exigency or the phasing out of the institution's programs requiring elimination of the faculty member's position; or(C)  there is other good cause as defined in the institution's policies; and(3)  provide for a periodic performance evaluation process for all tenured faculty at the institution.(c-2)  The governing board may design its policies and procedures to fit the institution's particular educational mission, traditions, resources, and circumstances relevant to the institution's character, role, and scope, in addition to other relevant factors determined by the governing board in the policies and procedures adopted under this section.  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the institution's faculty before adopting any policies and procedures under this section.  The advice and comment from the faculty on the performance evaluation of tenured faculty shall be given the utmost consideration by the governing board.(c-3)  In addition to any other provisions adopted by the governing board, the policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) must include provisions providing that:(1)  each tenured faculty member at the institution be subject to a comprehensive performance evaluation process conducted no more often than once every year, but no less often than once every six years, after the date the faculty member was granted tenure or received an academic promotion at the institution;(2)  the comprehensive performance evaluation be based on the professional responsibilities of the faculty member, in teaching, research, service, patient care, and administration, and include peer review of the faculty member;(3)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process be directed toward the professional development of the faculty member;(4)  the comprehensive performance evaluation process incorporate commonly recognized academic due process rights, including notice of the manner and scope of the comprehensive performance evaluation, the opportunity to provide documentation during the comprehensive performance evaluation process, and, before a faculty member may be subject to disciplinary action on the basis of a comprehensive performance evaluation conducted under this subsection, notice of specific charges and an opportunity for hearing on those charges;(5)  a faculty member be subject to revocation of tenure or other appropriate disciplinary action if, during the comprehensive performance evaluation, incompetency, neglect of duty, or other good cause is determined to be present; and(6)  for a faculty member who receives an unsatisfactory rating in any area of any evaluation conducted under this section, the evaluation process provide for a short-term development plan that includes performance benchmarks for returning to satisfactory performance.(c-4)  The policies and procedures adopted by the governing board under Subsection (c-1) may include provisions that authorize the summary dismissal of a tenured faculty member based on a finding that the faculty member committed serious misconduct, as defined by the institution's policies, at any time after providing the faculty member with appropriate due process in accordance with this subsection.  The policies and procedures for summary dismissal must ensure that the institution provides the faculty member with appropriate due process, including:(1)  before summarily dismissing the faculty member, providing the faculty member:(A)  written notice of the allegations against the faculty member together with an explanation of the evidence supporting dismissal; and(B)  an opportunity for the faculty member to respond to the allegations in a hearing with a designated administrator;(2)  requiring the designated administrator to consider the faculty member's response under Subdivision (1)(B) and make a written determination of whether the institution will proceed with the summary dismissal of the faculty member;(3)  promptly providing to the faculty member a copy of the designated administrator's written determination under Subdivision (2) that:(A)  clearly indicates whether the faculty member will be subject to summary dismissal; and(B)  either:(i)  includes the effective date of the dismissal and information regarding the faculty member's opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal, if the designated administrator's decision is in favor of summary dismissal; or(ii)  states that the faculty member is not subject to summary dismissal, if the designated administrator's decision is against summary dismissal; and(4)  following a designated administrator's written determination to summarily dismiss a faculty member, providing the faculty member with the opportunity for a post-dismissal appeal in accordance with the institution's policies and procedures.(d)  Repealed by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 923 (S.B. 18), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2023.(e)  A governing board may not waive the evaluation process for any faculty member granted tenure at an institution.(f)  A governing board may not award tenure to an administrator in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(g)  Each governing board shall file a copy of the policies and procedures adopted under this section, and any amendments to such polices and procedures, with the coordinating board on or before September 1 of each year.
Sec. 51.943.  RENEWAL OF FACULTY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Contract" means an agreement between an institution of higher education or its authorized agent and a faculty member that establishes the terms of the faculty member's employment, including the faculty member's responsibilities and salary, for an academic year.(2)  "Faculty member" means a person who is employed full time by an institution of higher education as a member of the faculty whose primary duties include teaching or research.  The term does not include:(A)  a person employed in the classified personnel system of the institution or a person employed in a similar type of position if the institution does not have a classified personnel system;(B)  a person who holds faculty rank but who spends a majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(3)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided in Subsection (c), an institution of higher education that determines it is in its best interest to reappoint a faculty member for the next academic year shall offer the faculty member a written contract for that academic year not later than 30 days before the first day of the academic year.(c)  For the purposes of this section, an institution of higher education is not required to provide an annual contract to tenure or tenure-track faculty, but must provide tenure and tenure-track faculty with any written notification required in the institution's tenure policy of a change in a term of employment according to the policies of the institution, but no later than the 30th day prior to the change.(d)  If the institution of higher education is unable to comply with Subsection (b), the institution shall:(1)  provide the faculty member with written notification that the institution is unable to comply with Subsection (b);(2)  include in the written notification reasons for its inability to comply with Subsection (b);  and(3)  specify in the written notification a time by which it will offer a written contract to the faculty member for the applicable academic year.(e)  If the institution does not offer the faculty member a written contract before the 61st day after the first day of the academic year and the institution retains the faculty member for that academic year without a written contract, the institution must retain the faculty member for that academic year under terms and conditions, including terms governing the faculty member's compensation, that are at least as favorable to the faculty member's employment for the preceding academic year, unless the institution and the faculty member subsequently enter into a different written contract.(f)  This section does not prohibit an institution of higher education from entering into a contract with a faculty member for a period longer than an academic year.(g)  Nothing in this section shall be deemed to provide a faculty member who does not hold tenure additional rights, privileges, or remedies or to provide an expectation of continued employment beyond the period of a faculty member's current contract.
Sec. 51.945.  STUDENT PARTICIPATION IN SELECTION OF FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education shall develop and implement policies that provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to appear before any committee or other entity that is determining whether a food service provider should be selected or retained by the institution.  The policies shall provide the students with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of a food service provider and the students' recommendations for qualifications of food service providers.(b)  A contract between an institution of higher education and a food service provider must require the food service provider to periodically hold meetings or forums to provide the students at the institution with a reasonable opportunity to discuss the performance of the food service provider.(c)  In this section:(1)  "Food service provider" means a person who contracts with the institution to provide food or beverage service at any location on the premises of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.946.  STUDENT DEBIT CARDS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  The governing board of a private or independent institution of higher education may establish a program to provide students enrolled at the institution with a debit card.(b)  A student issued a debit card under the program may use the card to purchase merchandise or service available through the institution or through a person authorized to sell merchandise or service at the institution, as determined by the governing board.(c)  The program may allow a person who is in business to sell merchandise or service of the same kind as the merchandise or service that a student may purchase under Subsection (b) to participate in the program under the same or equivalent terms applicable to a person authorized to sell merchandise under Subsection (b) and accept a debit card payment from a student to whom a debit card has been issued under the program for purchase of that merchandise or service.(d)  The private or independent institution of higher education may assess participating businesses a fee for the implementation and administration of the program.(e)  In this section:(1)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Person" has the meaning assigned by Section 1.201, Business & Commerce Code.
Sec. 51.9461.  CHARGES AND FEES FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS AT PRIVATE OR INDEPENDENT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  This section applies only to a payment of tuition, a fee, or another charge made by or on behalf of a student, including a person admitted but not yet enrolled, of a private or independent institution of higher education if the payment is made or authorized in person, by mail, by telephone call, or through the Internet by means of:(1)  an electronic funds transfer; or(2)  a credit card.(c)  A private or independent institution of higher education may charge a fee or other amount in connection with a payment to which this section applies, in addition to the amount of the tuition, fee, or other charge being paid, including:(1)  a discount, convenience, or service charge for the transaction; or(2)  a service charge in connection with a payment transaction that is dishonored or refused for lack of funds or insufficient funds.(d)  A fee or other charge under this section must be in an amount reasonable and necessary to reimburse the institution for the expense incurred by the institution in processing and handling the payment or payment transaction.(e)  Before accepting a payment by credit card, the institution shall notify the student or other person making the payment of any fee to be charged under this section.
Sec. 51.947.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS.  (a)  An employee of an institution of higher education may authorize a deduction each pay period from the employee's salary or wage payment for:(1)  a contribution to an institution of higher education;  or(2)  a charitable contribution to a nonprofit organization the purpose of which is to support the programs of an institution of higher education.(b)  To be eligible to receive charitable contributions under this section, a nonprofit organization must comply with the rules adopted under Section 2255.001, Government Code, by the institution of higher education the organization supports.(c)  An institution of higher education shall establish procedures to enable an employee of the institution to authorize a deduction under this section.(d)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.948.  RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACTS WITH ADMINISTRATORS.  (a)  The governing board of an institution of higher education may enter into an employment contract with an administrator that is to be paid in whole or in part from appropriated funds only if, before the date the contract is executed, the governing board determines that the contract is in the best interest of the institution.(b)  A contract entered into by a governing board under this section may not:(1)  provide for employment for more than three years;(2)  allow for severance or other payments on the termination of the contract to exceed an amount equal to the discounted net present cash value of the contract on termination at a market interest rate agreed upon in the contract;(3)  allow for development leave that is inconsistent with Section 51.105;  or(4)  award tenure in any way that varies from the institution's general policy on the award of tenure.(c)  An institution of higher education may not pay a salary to a person who is reassigned from an administrative position to a faculty or other position at the institution that exceeds the salary of other persons with similar qualifications performing similar duties.(d)  An institution of higher education must require an administrator who receives development leave to:(1)  return to work at the institution for an amount of time equal to the amount of time the administrator received development leave;  or(2)  repay the institution for all the costs of the development leave, including the amount of the administrator's salary, if any, paid during the leave.(e)  A record that pertains to a contract between an institution and an administrator, including terms relating to an amount of money the institution has paid or agreed to pay or the extension of any monetary or other consideration to an administrator in connection with the settlement, compromise, or other resolution of any difference between the institution or governing body and a current or former administrator, is public information and may not be withheld from public disclosure.(f)  Notwithstanding Subsection (b)(3), the governing board of an institution may grant development leave at the faculty member's full regular salary for one year to a faculty member who has held an administrative position at the institution for more than four years.(g)  In this section:(1)  "Administrator" means a person who has significant administrative duties relating to the operation of the institution, including the operation of a department, college, program, or other subdivision of the institution.(2)  "Governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Contract" includes a letter of agreement or letter of understanding.
Sec. 51.950.  POLICY REGULATING STUDENT TRAVEL.  (a)  In this section, "governing board" and "institution of higher education" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each governing board of an institution of higher education shall adopt a policy regulating travel that is undertaken by one or more students presently enrolled at the institution to reach an activity or event that is located more than 25 miles from the institution that is organized and sponsored by the institution and that is:(1)  funded by the institution, and the travel is undertaken using a vehicle owned or leased by the institution;  or(2)  required by a student organization registered at the institution.(c)  The governing board shall seek advice and comment from the faculty and students of the institution before adopting any policy under this section.(d)  The policy must contain provisions that address:(1)  different modes of travel likely to be used by students;  and(2)  safety issues related to student travel, including:(A)  use of seat belts or other safety devices;(B)  passenger capacity;  and(C)  for the person providing transportation services:(i)  qualifications and training required to operate that particular mode of travel;  and(ii)  fatigue at the time of travel.(e)  The governing board shall make the policy available to the public by publishing the policy in the institution's catalog and by any other method the board considers appropriate.(f)  The governing board shall file a copy of the policy adopted under this section, and any amendments to that policy, with the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(g)  This section does not create a claim or cause of action against an institution of higher education beyond a claim or cause of action authorized on the effective date of the Act that enacted this section by Chapter 101, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
Sec. 51.951.  CONFIDENTIALITY OF CERTAIN INFORMATION RELATED TO PURCHASE OR SALE OF REAL ESTATE.  (a)  Information related to the location, purchase price, or sale price of real property purchased or sold by or for an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, is confidential and exempt from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, until a deed for the property is executed.  Information that is confidential and exempted from disclosure under this subsection includes an appraisal, completed report, evaluation, investigation conducted for the purpose of locating or determining the purchase or sale price of the property, or any report prepared in anticipation of purchasing or selling real property.(b)  Information that is confidential and excluded from disclosure under Subsection (a) is not subject to a subpoena directed to an institution of higher education, its governing board, or any officer, agent, or employee of an institution of higher education.
Sec. 51.952.  STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE.  (a)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may require a student enrolled at a medical and dental unit to have in effect during the calendar year of enrollment a health insurance policy for health care services received by the student.(b)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit shall determine the minimum coverage standards for health insurance required under this section.(c)  If the student agrees in writing, the medical and dental unit shall provide a reasonable estimate of the cost of the health insurance coverage within the student's cost of education for financial aid purposes.(d)  If a governing board of a medical and dental unit requires health insurance coverage for students under Subsection (a), a student may be provisionally enrolled at the medical and dental unit for one academic session without the coverage in order to allow the student time to obtain the coverage.(e)  The governing board of a medical and dental unit may adopt such other rules and regulations as it determines necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.(f)  In this section, "governing board" and "medical and dental unit" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.
Sec. 51.953.  CERTAIN REVENUE RECEIVED FROM STUDENT HEALTH CENTER SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Health benefit plan" means any health benefit plan regulated under the Insurance Code, including:(A)  an individual or group health insurance policy; or(B)  an evidence of coverage issued by a health maintenance organization.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Amounts received by an institution of higher education from a health benefit plan issuer as a result of a claim filed with the issuer by or on behalf of the institution's student health center are institutional funds under Section 51.009 and may be used only for the construction, improvement, operation, or maintenance of the student health center or to increase or enhance the services offered by the student health center.  It is the intent of the legislature that those amounts be in addition to other amounts of money allocated to the student health center and those other amounts not be reduced.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF CONTRACTED RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with, or that is conducted under a grant awarded by and pursuant to a written agreement with, an individual or entity other than the institution conducting the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1024 (H.B. 1295), Sec. 1For text of section as added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 326 (S.B. 20), Sec. 24, see other Sec. 51.954.Sec. 51.954.  DISCLOSURE OF SPONSORS OF RESEARCH IN PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS.  (a)  In any public communication the content of which is based on the results of sponsored research, a faculty member or other employee or appointee of an institution of higher education who conducted or participated in conducting the research shall conspicuously disclose the identity of each sponsor of the research.(b)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Public communication" means oral or written communication intended for public consumption or distribution, including:(A)  testimony in a public administrative, legislative, regulatory, or judicial proceeding;(B)  printed matter including a magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, pamphlet, or report; or(C)  posting of information on a website or similar Internet host for information.(3)  "Sponsor" means an entity that contracts for or provides money or materials for research.(4)  "Sponsored research" means research:(A)  that is conducted under a contract with or a grant from an individual or entity, other than the institution conducting the research, for the purpose of the research; and(B)  in which payments received or the value of materials received under that contract or grant, or under a combination of more than one such contract or grant, constitutes at least 50 percent of the cost of conducting the research.
Sec. 51.955.  PROHIBITED STATE AGENCY ACTIONS RELATED TO DISCLOSURE OF PUBLICLY FUNDED RESEARCH.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A state agency that expends appropriated funds may not:(1)  enter into a research contract with an institution of higher education if that contract contains a provision precluding public disclosure of any final data generated or produced in the course of executing the contract unless the agency reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party; or(2)  adopt a rule that is based on research conducted under a contract entered into with an institution of higher education unless the agency:(A)  has made the results of the research and all data supporting the research publicly available; or(B)  reasonably determines that the premature disclosure of such data would adversely affect public safety, the protection of intellectual property rights of the institution of higher education, publication rights in professional scientific publications, or valuable confidential information of the institution of higher education or a third party.(c)  Subsection (b)(1) does not apply to a research contract between an institution of higher education and the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas.(d)  A response to a request for information regarding research described by Subsection (b) must be made in accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code.(e)  This section does not require the public disclosure of personal identifying information or any other information the disclosure of which is otherwise prohibited by law.
Sec. 51.956.  POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR RESEARCH SECURITY.  (a)  In this section, "governing board," "institution of higher education," and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of each institution of higher education shall establish a policy framework that promotes secure academic research at the institution while mitigating the risk of foreign espionage and interference. The governing board of a university system must establish a separate policy framework for each institution of higher education under the governing board's management and control.(c)  The policy framework must address:(1)  achieving the highest level of compliance with applicable ethical, legal, regulatory, contractual, and system standards and requirements for securing and protecting the institution's research portfolios;(2)  promoting within the institution an organizational culture of compliance with federal requirements to ensure the institution maintains eligibility for federal funding; and(3)  designating a person to serve as a research security officer responsible for maintaining classified information, maintaining controlled unclassified information, conducting foreign influence reporting, and addressing other issues at the institution associated with the goals of the policy framework.(d)  For purposes of designating a person to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3), the governing board of a university system may designate a person to serve in an institutional or system-wide capacity.(e)  A person designated to serve as a research security officer under Subsection (c)(3) shall attend the annual academic security and counter exploitation program seminar offered by Texas A&M University.
Sec. 51.960.  GRIEVANCE RIGHTS ON CERTAIN PERSONNEL ISSUES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Faculty member" means a person employed full-time by an institution of higher education as a member of the institution's faculty, including professional librarians, whose duties include teaching, research, administration, or the performance of professional services.  The term does not include a person who holds faculty rank but who spends the majority of the person's time for the institution engaged in managerial or supervisory activities, including a chancellor, vice chancellor, president, vice president, provost, associate or assistant provost, dean, or associate or assistant dean.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A faculty member at an institution of higher education has a right to present a grievance, in person, to a member of the institution's administration designated by the governing board of the institution on an issue related to the nonrenewal or termination of the faculty member's employment at the institution.(c)  An institution may not, by contract, policy, or procedure, restrict a faculty member's right to present a grievance under this section.  An institution may adopt a method for presenting, reviewing, and acting on a grievance filed under this section.
Sec. 51.961.  LEAVE PROVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR COMPONENT INSTITUTION OF SYSTEM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Governing board" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Leave" includes vacation leave, sick leave, and holidays.(b)  The governing board of a university system may adopt a comprehensive leave policy that applies to employees of the university system or any component institution of the system.(c)  A policy adopted under this section may combine vacation, sick, and holiday leave into a paid leave system that does not distinguish or separate the types of leave to be awarded and may award leave in an amount determined by the governing board to be appropriate and cost-effective.(d)  Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, do not apply to employees covered by a policy adopted under this section.  The policy must include provisions addressing the subject matter of each subchapter of Chapters 661 and 662, Government Code, and the intended effect of the policy on the rights, duties, and responsibilities of employees and the employing entity under those subchapters.(e)  A policy adopted under this section must include provisions for:(1)  payment for accrued leave to:(A)  the estates or heirs of deceased employees;(B)  employees separating from the employing entity;  and(C)  contributing members of state retirement systems who retire;  and(2)  awards of accrued leave to employees separating from the employing entity who are to be employed by other state agencies or institutions of higher education.(f)  A policy authorized by this section may include other matters as determined relevant and appropriate by the governing board.(g)  A policy authorized by this section must be adopted by a governing board in an open meeting of the board.(h)  Before implementing a policy adopted under this section, the governing board shall make reasonable efforts to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the office of the state auditor, the Employees Retirement System of Texas, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board concerning awards of accrued leave for the purposes of retirement and other issues of concern related to the implementation of the policy.(i)  On or after September 15, 2005, the governing board of an institution of higher education may adopt a leave policy as provided by this section for employees of the institution.
Sec. 51.9611.  PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES OF UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OR INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  The governing board of a university system, or of an institution of higher education that is not a component institution of a university system, may authorize employees of the system or institution, as applicable, to elect a payroll deduction for any purpose that the governing board determines serves a public purpose and benefits employees.  The board may adopt policies and procedures governing payroll deductions under this section.  A payroll deduction under this section is in addition to payroll deductions authorized by other law.(c)  A payroll deduction under this section must be at the written request of the employee, and the request must state the amount to be deducted and the entity to which the deducted amount is to be transferred.  A payroll deduction is in effect until revoked in writing by the employee, but the policies and procedures of the university system or institution of higher education, as applicable, may provide for enrollment periods.(d)  A university system or institution of higher education may collect an administrative fee to cover the costs of making a deduction.(e)  This section does not authorize a payroll deduction for dues or membership fees payable to a labor union or employees association.
Sec. 51.962.  MERIT SALARY INCREASES.  (a)  An institution of higher education as defined by Section 61.003 may grant merit salary increases, including one-time merit payments, to employees described by this section.(b)  A merit salary increase made under this section is compensation for purposes of Chapter 659, Government Code, and salary and wages and member compensation for purposes of Title 8, Government Code.(c)  An institution of higher education may pay merit salary increases under this section from any funds.(d)  Before awarding a merit salary increase under this section, an institution of higher education must adopt criteria for the granting of merit salary increases.(e)  To be eligible for a merit salary increase under this section, an employee must have been employed by the institution of higher education for the six months immediately preceding the effective date of the increase and at least six months must have elapsed since the employee's last merit salary increase.(f)  This subsection applies to an employee employed by the institution of higher education for more than six months.  The requirement that six months elapse between merit salary increases prescribed by Subsection (e) does not apply to a one-time merit payment if the chief administrative officer of the institution of higher education determines in writing that the one-time merit payment is made in relation to the employee's performance during a natural disaster or other extraordinary circumstance.
Sec. 51.9645.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN ACTIVITIES BY FINANCIAL AID EMPLOYEES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Student loan" means a loan for which the loan agreement requires that all or part of the loan proceeds be used to assist a person in attending an institution of higher education or other postsecondary institution.(3)  "Student loan lender" means a person whose primary business is:(A)  making, brokering, arranging, or accepting applications for student loans; or(B)  a combination of activities described by Paragraph (A).(b)  A person employed by an institution of higher education in the financial aid office of the institution may not:(1)  own stock or hold another ownership interest in a student loan lender, other than through ownership of shares in a publicly traded mutual fund or similar investment vehicle in which the person does not exercise any discretion regarding the investment of the assets of the fund or other investment vehicle; or(2)  solicit or accept any gift from a student loan lender.(c)  A person who violates this section is subject to dismissal or other appropriate disciplinary action.
Sec. 51.968.  UNDERGRADUATE COURSE CREDIT FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS COMPLETING POSTSECONDARY-LEVEL PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Advanced Placement examination" means an examination administered through the Advanced Placement Program.(2)  "CLEP examination" means an examination administered through the College-Level Examination Program.(3)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(4)  "Institution of higher education" means an institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, that offers freshman-level courses.(5)  "International Baccalaureate Diploma Program" means the curriculum and examinations leading to an International Baccalaureate diploma awarded by the International Baccalaureate Organization.(b)  Each institution of higher education that offers freshman-level courses shall adopt and implement a policy to grant undergraduate course credit to entering freshman students who have:(1)  successfully completed the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program;(2)  achieved required scores on one or more examinations in the Advanced Placement Program or the College-Level Examination Program; or(3)  successfully completed one or more dual credit courses.(c)  In the policy, the institution shall:(1)  establish the institution's conditions for granting course credit, including the minimum required scores on CLEP examinations, Advanced Placement examinations, and examinations for courses constituting the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program; and(2)  based on the correlations identified under Subsection (f), identify the specific course credit or other academic requirements of the institution, including the number of semester credit hours or other course credit, that the institution will grant to a student who:(A)  successfully completes the diploma program;(B)  achieves required scores on CLEP examinations or Advanced Placement examinations; or(C)  successfully completes a dual credit course.(c-1)  In establishing the minimum required score on an Advanced Placement examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score of more than three unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(c-2)  In establishing the minimum required score on a CLEP examination for granting course credit for a particular lower-division course under Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not require a score higher than the minimum score recommended by the American Council on Education for granting course credit for that examination unless the institution's chief academic officer determines, based on evidence, that a higher score on the examination is necessary to indicate that a student is sufficiently prepared to be successful in a related, more advanced course for which the lower-division course is a prerequisite.(d)  The policy adopted by an institution of higher education under Subsection (b) must provide that the institution may grant undergraduate course credit for a dual credit course only if the course is:(1)  in the core curriculum of the institution of higher education that offered the course;(2)  a career and technical education course; or(3)  a foreign language course.(d-1)  Subsection (d) does not apply to a dual credit course completed by a student as part of the early college education program established under Section 29.908 or any other early college program that assists a student in earning a certificate or an associate degree while in high school.(d-2)  The coordinating board, in coordination with the Texas Education Agency, shall adopt rules to implement Subsections (d) and (d-1).  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code, and consult with relevant stakeholders.(e)  On request of an applicant for admission as an entering freshman, an institution of higher education, based on information provided by the applicant, shall determine and notify the applicant regarding:(1)  the amount and type of any course credit that would be granted to the applicant under the policy; and(2)  any other academic requirement that the applicant would satisfy under the policy.(f)  The coordinating board, in consultation with the Texas Education Agency, shall:(1)  identify correlations between the subject matter and content of courses offered by each institution of higher education and the subject matter and content of courses and examinations in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program, the Advanced Placement Program, and the College-Level Examination Program; and(2)  make that information available to the public on the coordinating board's Internet website.(g)  Except as otherwise provided by this subsection, an institution of higher education shall grant at least 24 semester credit hours or equivalent course credit in appropriate subject areas to an entering freshman student for successful completion of the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program.  The institution may grant fewer than 24 semester credit hours if the student received a score of less than four on an examination administered as part of the diploma program.  The institution may grant fewer credit hours only with respect to courses that are substantially related to the subject of that examination.
Sec. 51.9685.  REQUIRED FILING OF DEGREE PLAN.  (a) In this section:(1)  "Degree plan" means a statement of the course of study requirements that an undergraduate student at an institution of higher education must complete in order to be awarded an associate or bachelor's degree from the institution.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as otherwise provided by Subsection (c), each student enrolled in an associate or bachelor's degree program at an institution of higher education shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of the semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 30 or more semester credit hours for coursework successfully completed by the student, including transfer courses, international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, and any other course for which the institution the student attends has awarded the student college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination.(c)  A student to whom Subsection (b) applies who begins the student's first semester or term at an institution of higher education with 30 or more semester credit hours of course credit for courses described by Subsection (b) shall file a degree plan with the institution after the 12th class day but before the end of that semester or term.(c-1)  Repealed by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 12, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 9, eff. June 14, 2019. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a course for joint high school and junior college credit under Section 130.008 at a public junior college and to whom Subsection (b) or (c-1) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the college not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the college with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the college. Text of subsection as added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4 (c-2)  A student enrolled in a dual credit course at an institution of higher education and to whom Subsection (b) does not apply shall file a degree plan with the institution not later than:(1)  the end of the second regular semester or term immediately following the semester or term in which the student earned a cumulative total of 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student; or(2)  if the student begins the student's first semester or term at the institution with 15 or more semester credit hours of course credit for dual credit courses successfully completed by the student, the end of the student's second regular semester or term at the institution.(d)  An institution of higher education shall provide to students to whom this section applies information regarding the degree plan filing requirement under this section and options for consulting with an academic advisor for that purpose, which may include consultation through electronic communication.(e)  At each registration for a semester or term, a student who is required to have filed a degree plan under this section before that semester or term shall verify to the institution that:(1)  the student has filed a degree plan with the institution; and(2)  the courses for which the student is registering are consistent with that degree plan.(f)  If a student to whom this section applies does not timely file a degree plan, the institution of higher education in which the student is enrolled shall notify the student that the degree plan is required by law and require the student to consult with an academic advisor for that purpose in accordance with the consulting options under Subsection (d) during the semester or term in which the student receives the notice.  The student may not obtain an official transcript from the institution until the student has filed a degree plan with the institution. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 438 (S.B. 1324), Sec. 1 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules requiring institutions of higher education to report to the board information regarding the filing of degree plans as required by this section. Text of subsection as amended by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1210 (S.B. 25), Sec. 4, and Ch. 1305 (H.B. 3808), Sec. 3 (g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section, including rules to ensure compliance with this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96851.  LEARNING OUTCOMES FOR UNDERGRADUATE COURSES.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  To foster a transparent student learning environment at institutions of higher education and to facilitate the universal articulation of undergraduate courses that are transferable for credit among all institutions of higher education, each institution of higher education shall identify, adopt, and make available for public inspection measurable learning outcomes for each undergraduate course offered by the institution other than:(1)  a course with a highly variable subject content that is tailored specifically to an individual student, such as an independent study or directed reading course; or(2)  a laboratory, practicum, or discussion section that is an intrinsic and required component of a lecture course.(c)  An institution of higher education may adopt learning outcomes for a course under this section that are the same as or based on those identified for that course by the institution's recognized accrediting agency.(d)  In consultation with institutions of higher education, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt any rules the coordinating board considers appropriate for the administration of this section.
Sec. 51.96852.  RECOMMENDED COURSE SEQUENCES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall develop at least one recommended course sequence for each undergraduate certificate or degree program offered by the institution.  Each recommended course sequence must:(1)  identify all required lower-division courses for the applicable certificate or degree program;(2)  include for each course, if applicable:(A)  the course number or course equivalent under the common course numbering system approved by the coordinating board under Section 61.832; and(B)  the course equivalent in the Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual or its successor adopted by the coordinating board;(3)  be designed to enable a full-time student to obtain a certificate or degree, as applicable, within:(A)  for a 60-hour degree or certificate program, two years; or(B)  for a 120-hour degree program, four years; and(4)  include a specific sequence in which courses should be completed to ensure completion of the applicable program within the time frame described by Subdivision (3).(c)  Each institution of higher education shall:(1)  include the recommended course sequences developed under this section in the institution's course catalog and on the institution's Internet website; and(2)  submit the recommended course sequences developed under this section to the coordinating board as provided by coordinating board rule.(d)  The coordinating board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary for the administration of this section.  In adopting those rules, the coordinating board shall use the negotiated rulemaking procedures under Chapter 2008, Government Code.
Sec. 51.96853.  TRANSFER OF CREDIT FROM LOWER-DIVISION INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION; ARTICULATION AGREEMENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Articulation agreement" means a formal written agreement between a lower-division institution of higher education and a general academic teaching institution identifying courses offered by the lower-division institution that must be accepted for credit toward specific course requirements at the general academic teaching institution.(2)  "General academic teaching institution" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(3)  "Lower-division institution of higher education" means a public junior college, public state college, or public technical institute, as those terms are defined by Section 61.003.(b)  Each general academic teaching institution may enter into an articulation agreement with a lower-division institution of higher education for a certificate or degree program for which students transferring from the lower-division institution to the general academic teaching institution receive transfer credit.(c)  An articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) on or after September 1, 2019, may use field of study curricula developed by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board under Section 61.823.(d)  A general academic teaching institution may extend an existing articulation agreement entered into under Subsection (b) to another lower-division institution of higher education with respect to the transfer of courses from that lower-division institution of higher education to the general academic teaching institution, on request by that lower-division institution of higher education.(e)  An articulation agreement established under this section may enable a transfer student to receive up to 60 semester credit hours for courses completed at the lower-division institution of higher education.(f)  A general academic teaching institution's participation in an articulation agreement under this section does not affect the institution's admissions policies.
Sec. 51.969.  ELIGIBILITY FOR SCHOLARSHIP; STATEMENT REQUIRED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" and "university system" have the meanings assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  A person is not eligible to receive a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system if the person is related to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system, unless:(1)  the scholarship is granted by a private organization or third party not affiliated with the institution of higher education or university system;(2)  the scholarship is awarded exclusively on the basis of prior academic merit;(3)  the scholarship is an athletic scholarship; or(4)  the relationship is not within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity, as determined under Subchapter B, Chapter 573, Government Code.(c)  Before receiving a scholarship originating from and administered by an institution of higher education or university system, a person must file a written statement with the institution or system indicating whether the person is related within the third degree by consanguinity or the second degree by affinity to a current member of the governing board of the institution or system.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules for the administration of this section and shall prescribe the statement to be used under this section.  The coordinating board shall notify each institution of higher education and university system of the required statement and applicable rules.(e)  A person commits an offense if the person knowingly files a false statement under Subsection (c).(f)  An offense under Subsection (e) is a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec. 51.970.  INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL FOR BLIND AND VISUALLY IMPAIRED STUDENTS AND STUDENTS WITH DYSLEXIA.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Blind or visually impaired student" includes any student whose visual acuity is impaired to the extent that the student is unable to read the print in the standard instructional material used in a course in which the student is enrolled.(2)  "Coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.(3)  "Dyslexia" means a condition of dyslexia considered to be a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. Section 12101 et seq.) or  Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. Section 794).(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Instructional material" means a printed textbook or other printed instructional material or a combination of a printed book and supplementary printed instructional material that:(A)  conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a student; and(B)  was published on or after January 1, 2004.(6)  "Special instructional material" means instructional material in Braille, large print, audio format, digital text, or any other medium or any apparatus that conveys information to or otherwise contributes to the learning process of a blind or visually impaired student or a student with dyslexia.(b)  This section applies only to instructional material that is:(1)  written and published primarily for postsecondary instruction of students; and(2)  required or essential for a student's success in a course at an institution of higher education, as identified by the instructor of the course for which the instructional material will be used, in consultation with the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities and in accordance with rules adopted under Subsection (i)(1).(c)  To assist the institution in producing special instructional material, a publisher or manufacturer of instructional material assigned by an institution of higher education for use by students in connection with a course at the institution shall provide to the institution on the institution's request in accordance with this section a copy in an electronic format of the instructional material. The publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy not later than the 15th business day after the date of receipt of the request.(d)  A request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) must:(1)  certify that for each blind or visually impaired student or student with dyslexia who will use specialized instructional material based on the requested copy of the material in an electronic format for a course in which the student is enrolled at the institution, either the institution or the student has purchased a printed copy of the instructional material; and(2)  be signed by the person at the institution with primary responsibility for services for students with disabilities.(e)  A publisher or manufacturer may require that a request made by an institution of higher education under Subsection (c) include from each student for whom the institution is making the request a signed statement in which the student agrees:(1)  to use the requested electronic copy and related special instructional material only for the student's own educational purposes; and(2)  not to copy or otherwise distribute in a manner that violates 17 U.S.C.  Section 101 et seq. the requested electronic copy or the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based.(f)  Each electronic copy of instructional material must:(1)  be in a format that:(A)  except as provided by Subsection (g), contains all of the information that is in the instructional material, including any text, sidebar, table of contents, chapter headings, chapter subheadings, footnotes, index, glossary, and bibliography, and is approved by the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, and the institution of higher education as a format that will contain that material; and(B)  is compatible with commonly used Braille translation and speech synthesis software; and(2)  include any correction or revision available at the time the electronic copy is provided.(g)  If the publisher or manufacturer and the institution of higher education are not able to agree on a format as required by Subsection (f)(1)(A), the publisher or manufacturer, as applicable, shall provide the electronic copy of the instructional material in a format that can be read by a word processing application and that contains as much of the material specified by that subsection as is practicable.(h)  The coordinating board may impose a reasonable administrative penalty, not to exceed $250 per violation, against a publisher or manufacturer that knowingly violates this section.  The coordinating board shall provide for a hearing to be held, in accordance with coordinating board rule, to determine whether a penalty is to be imposed and the amount of any penalty.  The coordinating board shall base the amount of any penalty on:(1)  the seriousness of the violation;(2)  any history of a previous violation;(3)  the amount necessary to deter a future violation;(4)  any effort to correct the violation;  and(5)  any other matter justice requires.(i)  The coordinating board, in consultation with an advocacy organization for persons who are blind or visually impaired, an advocacy organization for persons with dyslexia, representatives from one or more instructional material publishing companies or publishing associations, and institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules for administering this section, including rules that address:(1)  the method for identifying instructional material considered to be required or essential for a student's success in a course;(2)  the procedures and standards relating to distribution of electronic copies of instructional material under this section; and(3)  any other matter considered necessary or appropriate for the administration of this section.(j)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a publisher or manufacturer is not required to comply with Subsection (c) or (f), as applicable, if the coordinating board, using procedures and criteria adopted by coordinating board rule and based on information provided by the publisher or manufacturer, determines that:(1)  compliance by the manufacturer or publisher would violate a law, rule, or regulation relating to copyrights; or(2)  the instructional material on which the requested electronic copy is based is:(A)  out of print; or(B)  in a format that makes it impracticable to convert the material into an electronic format.
Sec. 51.9705.  NOTICE REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF TEXTBOOKS THROUGH MULTIPLE RETAILERS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "University-affiliated bookstore" means a bookstore that:(A)  sells textbooks for courses offered by an institution of higher education, regardless of whether the bookstore is located on the campus of the institution; and(B)  is operated by or with the approval of the institution through ownership, a management agreement, a lease or rental agreement, or otherwise.(b)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall prescribe procedures by which each institution of higher education shall provide to each student enrolled at the institution written notice regarding the availability of required or recommended textbooks through university-affiliated bookstores and through retailers other than university-affiliated bookstores.  The procedures must require the institution to provide the notice:(1)  to each student of the institution during the week preceding each fall and spring semester;(2)  to each student enrolled at the institution in a semester or summer term during the first three weeks of the semester or the first week of the summer term, as applicable; and(3)  to students or prospective students of the institution attending an orientation conducted by or for the institution.(c)  The notice shall be provided in a hard-copy or electronic format in a manner that ensures that the notice is reasonably likely to come to the attention of a student receiving the notice.  The notice must contain the following:"A student of this institution is not under any obligation to purchase a textbook from a university-affiliated bookstore.  The same textbook may also be available from an independent retailer, including an online retailer."(d)  The coordinating board shall adopt rules to administer this section.
Sec. 51.971.  COMPLIANCE PROGRAM.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Compliance program" means a process to assess and ensure compliance by the officers, employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, or other persons acting on behalf of an institution of higher education with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policies, including matters of:(A)  ethics and standards of conduct;(B)  financial reporting;(C)  internal accounting controls; or(D)  auditing.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  An institution of higher education that maintains a compliance program may establish procedures, such as a telephone hotline, to permit private access to the compliance program office and to preserve the confidentiality of communications and the anonymity of a person making a compliance report or participating in a compliance investigation.(c)  The following are confidential:(1)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual who made a report to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education, sought guidance from the office, or participated in an investigation conducted under the compliance program; and(2)  information that directly or indirectly reveals the identity of an individual as a person who is alleged to have or may have planned, initiated, or participated in activities that are the subject of a report made to the compliance program office of an institution of higher education if, after completing an investigation, the office determines the report to be unsubstantiated or without merit.(d)  Subsection (c) does not apply to information related to an individual who consents to disclosure of the information.(e)  Information is excepted from disclosure under Chapter 552, Government Code, if it is collected or produced:(1)  in a compliance program investigation and releasing the information would interfere with an ongoing compliance investigation; or(2)  by a systemwide compliance office for the purpose of reviewing compliance processes at a component institution of higher education of a university system.(f)  Information made confidential or excepted from public disclosure by this section may be made available to the following on request in compliance with applicable law and procedure:(1)  a law enforcement agency or prosecutor;(2)  a governmental agency responsible for investigating the matter that is the subject of a compliance report, including the Texas Workforce Commission civil rights division or the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; or(3)  an officer or employee of an institution of higher education or a compliance officer or employee of a university system administration who is responsible under institutional or system policy for a compliance program investigation or for reviewing a compliance program investigation.(g)  A disclosure under Subsection (f) is not a voluntary disclosure for purposes of Section 552.007, Government Code.
Sec. 51.9715.  RELEASE OF STUDENT ACADEMIC INFORMATION.  (a)  An institution of higher education may request the submission of a signed consent form authorizing the institution to release academic course, grade, and credit information with each:(1)  application for undergraduate transfer admission to the institution, if the institution is a general academic teaching institution, to be used for the purposes of Section 61.833; or(2)  request from a student for a release of the student's transcript by the institution.(a-1)  An institution of higher education, or a school district that offers international baccalaureate courses, dual credit courses, or any other course for which an institution of higher education may award students enrolled at the district college course credit, including course credit awarded by examination, may release student information to an institution of higher education for purposes of transferring course credit to that institution or enabling the awarding of course credit by that institution, in accordance with federal law regarding the confidentiality of student information, including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g), and any state law relating to the privacy of student information.(b)  An institution of higher education or school district may release student information in accordance with Subsection (a) or (a-1), as applicable, through:(1)  the National Student Clearinghouse; or(2)  a similar electronic data sharing and exchange platform operated by an agent of the institution or district that meets nationally accepted standards, conventions, and practices.
Sec. 51.974.  INTERNET ACCESS TO COURSE INFORMATION.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, other than a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for each undergraduate classroom course offered for credit by the institution:(1)  a syllabus that:(A)  satisfies any standards adopted by the institution;(B)  provides a brief description of each major course requirement, including each major assignment and examination;(C)  lists any required or recommended reading; and(D)  provides a general description of the subject matter of each lecture or discussion;(2)  a curriculum vitae of each regular instructor that lists the instructor's:(A)  postsecondary education;(B)  teaching experience; and(C)  significant professional publications; and(3)  if available, a departmental budget report of the department under which the course is offered, from the most recent semester or other academic term during which the institution offered the course.(a-1)  A curriculum vitae made available on the institution's Internet website under Subsection (a) may not include any personal information, including the instructor's home address or home telephone number.(b)  The information required by Subsection (a) must be:(1)  accessible from the institution's Internet website home page by use of not more than three links;(2)  searchable by keywords and phrases; and(3)  accessible to the public without requiring registration or use of a user name, a password, or another user identification.(c)  The institution shall make the information required by Subsection (a) available not later than the seventh day after the first day of classes for the semester or other academic term during which the course is offered.  The institution shall continue to make the information available on the institution's Internet website until at least the second anniversary of the date on which the institution initially posted the information.(d)  The institution shall update the information required by Subsection (a) as soon as practicable after the information changes.(e)  The governing body of the institution shall designate an administrator to be responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(f)  Not later than January 1 of each odd-numbered year, each institution of higher education shall submit a written report regarding the institution's compliance with this section to the governor, the lieutenant governor, the speaker of the house of representatives, and the presiding officer of each legislative standing committee with primary jurisdiction over higher education.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section.(h)  Institutions of higher education included in this section shall conduct end-of-course student evaluations of faculty and develop a plan to make evaluations available on the institution's website.
Sec. 51.9741.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.  (a)  Each institution of higher education, as defined by Section 61.003, shall post on the institution's Internet website a copy of the institution's financial transactions to the extent necessary to provide, for each payment drawn from money appropriated from the state general revenue fund or received as student tuition or fee payments:(1)  the amount of the payment;(2)  the date of the payment;(3)  a brief description of the purpose of the payment; and(4)  the name of the payee.(b)  An institution of higher education may comply with this section by providing on the institution's Internet website an easily noticeable direct link, the purpose of which is clearly identifiable, to an Internet website maintained by the comptroller that provides information concerning the institution that is similar to the information required under Subsection (a).
Sec. 51.9745.  INTERNET ACCESS TO FACULTY INFORMATION.  (a)  Each general academic teaching institution, as defined by Section 61.003, shall make available to the public on the institution's Internet website the following information for the institution:(1)  the student/faculty ratio;(2)  the percentage of all full-time equivalent faculty members with teaching responsibility who are tenured or tenure track;(3)  the percentage of semester credit hours taken by students classified as freshmen or sophomores that are taught by tenured and tenure track faculty members;(4)  the number of faculty members in each of the following faculty ranks, including a breakdown for each rank showing the numbers of faculty members by race, ethnicity, and gender:(A)  professor;(B)  associate professor;(C)  assistant professor;(D)  instructor;(E)  nontenured or nontenure track; and(F)  teaching assistant;(5)  average faculty salaries by rank;(6)  the amount of money appropriated by the legislature per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(7)  the total revenue the institution spent per full-time equivalent faculty member and full-time equivalent student;(8)  the amount of federal and private research expenditures per tenured or tenure track full-time equivalent faculty member;(9)  the number and percentage of faculty members holding extramural research grants;(10)  the number and names of awards to faculty members from nationally recognized entities, including those identified by The Center for Measuring University Performance; and(11)  the number of endowed professorships or chairs.(b)  Each institution to which this section applies shall update the information required by Subsection (a) for the preceding academic or fiscal year, as applicable, not later than December 31 of each year.(c)  The administrator designated under Section 51.974 by an institution to which this section applies is responsible for ensuring implementation of this section.  The administrator may assign duties under this section to one or more administrative employees.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board may adopt rules necessary to administer this section, including rules to ensure the consistency of information made available under this section.
Sec. 51.975.  SHARING OF UNDERUSED CLASSROOMS.  (a)  A public institution of higher education may make the institution's classrooms not scheduled for use by the institution or by students, student organizations, or faculty of the institution between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. on one or more weekdays or between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on one or more Saturdays available for that day to another public junior college on request for teaching courses in the core curriculum, as defined by Section 61.821, or continuing education courses.(b)  A public institution of higher education that under Subsection (a) makes a classroom available to another institution shall continue to make that classroom, or a comparable classroom, available to the other institution for the duration of the semester or other academic term.(c)  An institution of higher education may charge another institution for the use of a classroom under this section at a rate not to exceed the rate permitted for this purpose as determined by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.  The coordinating board shall establish those rates in an amount to reimburse the host institution for utility costs and other costs, such as maintenance and custodial services, based on the infrastructure formula funding that the host institution would receive if teaching a course in that space itself for that time.
Sec. 51.976.  TRAINING AND EXAMINATION PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYEES OF CAMPUS PROGRAMS FOR MINORS ON WARNING SIGNS OF SEXUAL ABUSE AND CHILD MOLESTATION.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Camper" means a minor who is attending a campus program for minors.(2)  "Campus program for minors" means a program that:(A)  is operated by or on the campus of an institution of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education;(B)  offers recreational, athletic, religious, or educational activities for at least 20 campers who:(i)  are not enrolled at the institution; and(ii)  attend or temporarily reside at the camp for all or part of at least four days; and(C)  is not a day camp or youth camp as defined by Section 141.002, Health and Safety Code, or a facility or program required to be licensed by the Department of Family and Protective Services.(3)  "Department" means the Department of State Health Services.(4)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(5)  "Private or independent institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(6)  "Program operator" means a person who owns, operates, or supervises a campus program for minors, regardless of profit.(7)  "Training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation" means a program approved by the department under Subsection (f).(b)  A program operator may not employ an individual in a position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors unless:(1)  the individual submits to the program operator or the campus program for minors has on file documentation that verifies the individual within the preceding two years successfully completed the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation; or(2)  the individual successfully completes the campus program for minors training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation, which must be approved by the department, during the individual's first five days of employment by the campus program for minors and the campus program issues and files documentation verifying successful completion.(c)  Subsection (b) does not apply to an individual who is a student enrolled at the institution of higher education or private or independent institution of higher education that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted and whose contact with campers is limited to a single class of short duration.(d)  A program operator must:(1)  submit to the department:(A)  on the form and within the time prescribed by the department verification that each employee of the campus program for minors has complied with the requirements of this section; and(B)  the fee assessed by the department under Subsection (g); and(2)  retain in the operator's records a copy of the documentation required or issued under Subsection (b) for each employee until the second anniversary of the examination date.(e)  A person applying for or holding an employee position involving contact with campers at a campus program for minors must successfully complete the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation during the applicable period prescribed by Subsection (b).(f)  The executive commissioner of the Health and Human Services Commission by rule shall establish criteria and guidelines for the training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation required by this section.  The program must include training and an examination on the topics listed in Section 141.0095(e), Health and Safety Code.  The department may approve training and examination programs on sexual abuse and child molestation offered by trainers under contract with campus programs for minors or by online training organizations or may approve programs offered in another format authorized by the department.(g)  The department may assess a fee in the amount necessary to cover the costs of administering this section to:(1)  each person that applies for the department's approval of a training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation under this section; and(2)  each program operator who files with the department the verification form required under Subsection (d)(1)(A).(h)  The department at least every five years shall review each training and examination program on sexual abuse and child molestation approved by the department under Subsection (f) to ensure the program continues to meet the criteria and guidelines established by rule under that subsection.(i)  The department may investigate a person the department suspects of violating this section or a rule adopted under this section.  A person who violates this section is subject to the enforcement provisions of Section 141.015, Health and Safety Code, as if the person violated Chapter 141, Health and Safety Code, or a rule adopted under that chapter.(j)  The program operator and the institution that operates the campus program for minors or at which the campus program is conducted are immune from civil or criminal liability for any act or omission of an employee for which the employee is immune under Section 261.106, Family Code.(k)  A program operator shall consider the costs of compliance with this section in determining any charges or fees imposed and collected for participation in the campus program for minors.
Sec. 51.9761.  CHILD ABUSE REPORTING POLICY AND TRAINING.  (a)  In this section, "other maltreatment" has the meaning assigned by Section 42.002, Human Resources Code.(b)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy governing the reporting of child abuse and neglect as required by Chapter 261, Family Code, for the institution and its employees.  The policy must require each employee of the institution to report child abuse and neglect in the manner required by Chapter 261, Family Code.(c)  Each institution of higher education shall provide training for employees who are professionals as defined by Section 261.101, Family Code, in prevention techniques for and the recognition of symptoms of sexual abuse and other maltreatment of children and the responsibility and procedure of reporting suspected occurrences of sexual abuse and other maltreatment.  The training must include:(1)  techniques for reducing a child's risk of sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(2)  factors indicating a child is at risk for sexual abuse or other maltreatment;(3)  the warning signs and symptoms associated with sexual abuse or other maltreatment and recognition of those signs and symptoms; and(4)  the requirements and procedures for reporting suspected sexual abuse or other maltreatment as provided by Chapter 261, Family Code.
Sec. 51.977.  EMPLOYMENT POLICIES FOR CERTAIN PERSONS EMPLOYED BY MEDICAL AND DENTAL UNITS.  (a)  The president of a medical and dental unit, as defined by Section 61.003, shall determine whether a person employed by the unit for patient care or clinical activities is a full-time employee for purposes of:(1)  employees group benefits under Chapter 1551 or 1601, Insurance Code;(2)  leave under Chapter 661 or 662, Government Code; and(3)  longevity pay under Section 659.043, Government Code.(b)  A determination under Subsection (a) does not entitle a person who works less than 40 hours a week to the full state contribution to the cost of any coverage or benefits.  However, from money other than money appropriated from the general revenue fund, the employing medical and dental unit may contribute to that cost amounts in excess of the state contribution.
Sec. 51.978.  TEMPORARY HOUSING BETWEEN ACADEMIC TERMS FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS FORMERLY UNDER CONSERVATORSHIP OF DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND PROTECTIVE SERVICES.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Academic term" includes a summer session.(b)  To be eligible to receive housing assistance from an institution of higher education under Subsection (c), a student must:(1)  have been under the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services or its predecessor in function on the day preceding:(A)  the student's 18th birthday; or(B)  the date the student's disabilities of minority are removed by a court under Chapter 31, Family Code;(2)  be enrolled full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately preceding the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;(3)  be registered or otherwise have taken the actions required by the institution to permit the student to enroll full-time at the institution during the academic term immediately following the period for which the student requests the housing assistance;  and(4)  lack other reasonable temporary housing alternatives between the academic terms described by Subdivisions (2) and (3), as determined by the institution.(c)  On the student's request, each institution of higher education shall assist an eligible student in locating temporary housing for any period beginning on the last day of an academic term and ending on the first day of the immediately following academic term, according to the institution's academic calendar.(d)  For each eligible student under Subsection (b) who also demonstrates financial need, the institution may:(1)  provide a stipend to cover any reasonable costs of the temporary housing that are not covered by other financial aid immediately available to the student for that purpose; or(2)  provide temporary housing directly to the student for the applicable period.(e)  The receipt of a stipend under Subsection (d) does not prohibit the student from receiving additional stipends under that subsection in one or more subsequent periods, based on the student's demonstrated financial need.(f)  An institution of higher education may use any available revenue, including legislative appropriations, and may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and donations for the purposes of this section.  The institution shall use any gifts, grants, and donations received for the purposes of this section before using other revenue.
Sec. 51.980.  INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC COMPETITION BASED ON BIOLOGICAL SEX.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Athletic competition" means any athletic display between teams or individuals, such as a contest, exhibition, performance, or sport.(2)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), an intercollegiate athletic team sponsored or authorized by an institution of higher education may not allow:(1)  a student to compete on the team in an intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution that is designated for the biological sex opposite to the student's biological sex; or(2)  a male student to compete on the team in a mixed-sex intercollegiate athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the institution in a position that is designated by rule or procedure for female students.(c)  An intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may allow a female student to compete in an intercollegiate athletic competition that is designated for male students if a corresponding intercollegiate athletic competition designated for female students is not offered or available.(d)  For purposes of this section:(1)  a student's biological sex is the biological sex correctly stated on:(A)  the student's official birth certificate, as described by Subdivision (2); or(B)  if the student's official birth certificate described by Paragraph (A) is unobtainable, another government record that accurately states the student's biological sex; and(2)  a statement of a student's biological sex on the student's official birth certificate is considered to have correctly stated the student's biological sex only if the statement was:(A)  entered at or near the time of the student's birth; or(B)  modified to correct a scrivener or clerical error in the student's biological sex.(e)  An institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) may not retaliate against a person for reporting a violation of this section.(f)  A person may bring a civil action for injunctive relief against an institution of higher education or an intercollegiate athletic team described by Subsection (b) that violates this section.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules to implement this section.  The rules must ensure compliance with state and federal law regarding the confidentiality of student medical information, including Chapter 181, Health and Safety Code, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.).
Sec. 51.981.  OFF-CAMPUS WORKFORCE EDUCATION OR LOWER-DIVISION PROGRAMS REQUESTED BY EMPLOYERS.  An institution of higher education may enter into an agreement with an employer to provide a credit or noncredit off-campus workforce education or lower-division program to the institution's students at a site requested by the employer without the approval of a higher education regional council established under Subchapter N, regardless of whether the site at which the program would be offered is located within the institution's uniform state service region or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area, if:(1)  the employer has solicited an agreement to offer the program at that site with another institution of higher education that offers the same or substantially equivalent coursework as that requested by the employer;(2)  the proposed site for the off-campus program is located within the uniform state service region in which the institution described by Subdivision (1) is located or, if the institution is a public junior college, within the junior college district's service area; and(3)  the institution of higher education described by Subdivision (1) does not finalize an offer to enter into an agreement with the employer that meets the employer's specifications for the off-campus program within six weeks after the employer's initial written solicitation requesting the institution to offer the program.
Sec. 51.982.  PROTECTIONS FOR PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS.  (a)  In this section:(1)  "Institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(2)  "Parenting student" means a student who is the parent or legal guardian of a child under 18 years of age.(b)  An institution of higher education may not require a pregnant or parenting student, solely because of the student's status as a pregnant or parenting student or due to issues related to the student's pregnancy or parenting, to:(1)  take a leave of absence or withdraw from the student's degree or certificate program;(2)  limit the student's studies;(3)  participate in an alternative program;(4)  change the student's major, degree, or certificate program; or(5)  refrain from joining or cease participating in any course, activity, or program at the institution.(c)  An institution of higher education shall provide reasonable accommodations to a pregnant student, including accommodations that:(1)  would be provided to a student with a temporary medical condition; or(2)  are related to the health and safety of the student and the student's unborn child, such as allowing the student to maintain a safe distance from substances, areas, and activities known to be hazardous to pregnant women or unborn children.(d)  An institution of higher education shall, for reasons related to a student's pregnancy, childbirth, or any resulting medical status or condition:(1)  excuse the student's absence;(2)  allow the student to make up missed assignments or assessments;(3)  allow the student additional time to complete assignments in the same manner as the institution allows for a student with a temporary medical condition; and(4)  provide the student with access to instructional materials and video recordings of lectures for classes for which the student has an excused absence under this section to the same extent that instructional materials and video recordings of lectures are made available to any other student with an excused absence.(e)  An institution of higher education shall allow a pregnant or parenting student to:(1)  take a leave of absence; and(2)  if in good academic standing at the time the student takes a leave of absence, return to the student's degree or certificate program in good academic standing without being required to reapply for admission.(f)  Each institution of higher education shall adopt a policy for students on pregnancy and parenting discrimination.  The policy must:(1)  include the contact information for the employee or office of the institution that is the designated point of contact for a student requesting each protection or accommodation under this section;(2)  be posted in an easily accessible, straightforward format on the institution's Internet website; and(3)  be made available annually to faculty, staff, and employees of the institution.(g)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, in consultation with institutions of higher education, shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.  The rules must establish minimum periods for which a pregnant or parenting student must be given a leave of absence under Subsection (e).  In establishing those periods, the board shall consider the maximum amount of time a student may be absent without significantly interfering with the student's ability to complete the student's degree or certificate program.
Sec. 51.987.  CERTAIN ACADEMIC BOYCOTTS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES PROHIBITED.  (a)  In this section, "institution of higher education" has the meaning assigned by Section 61.003.(b)  Subject to Subsection (c), an institution of higher education may not implement an academic boycott of a foreign country that would prevent a student or faculty member of the institution from:(1)  studying or conducting research in or about the country; or(2)  interacting with the country's scholars or representatives.(c)  An institution of higher education may implement an academic boycott described by Subsection (b) of a foreign country included by the United States Department of State on a list of state sponsors of terrorism.  The boycott may not prevent a student enrolled at the institution from studying or being educated about the country.(d)  The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board shall adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.
Contact Us
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Board Members  |  Commissioner  |  Agency Info  |  Index A-Z  |  Search:
An asterisk *  by the field  indicates a required field!
-- please select an item --
PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
-- please select an item --
* Student Loan Question
*Financial Aid Question
Academic Policy-Graduate
Academic Policy-Health Professions Programs
Academic Policy-Undergraduate
Accountability System
Accreditations status other than at Texas Public School
Adult Basic Education Programming
Applying to College
Complaint Against THECB
Developmental Education
Educator Preparation
Employment Opportunities at THECB
External Relations Inquiry
Facilities Inventory and Projects
Nursing Reduction Shortage Program
Optional Retirement Program (ORP)
Private Institutions
Request to Use Protected Term
Residency Information
Student Complaint Against a Higher Education Institution
Technical Website Questions
TSI (Texas Success Initiative)/College Readiness Assessment
Workforce Education
4000 characters max
Please do NOT include your full Social Security Number inside the issue description. If you have a question about the status of  a new loan application, accounts in repayment, or deferments, please use the last four digits of your SSN instead.
Is this a complaint
E-MAIL                LETTER       PHONE
-- please select State --
Site Map | Staff Directory | Employment | Site Policies | TRAIL | Texas.gov | Fraud Hotline1200 E. Anderson Lane, Austin, TX 78752 - P.O. Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788 - (512) 427-6101©2012 THECB
Data Requests
Institutional Online Resume
Resumes - THECB Applications
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Return to Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
First, select an institution type, institution and year.
Universities (TX public)
Two-year Institutions (TX public)
Health-Related Institutions (TX public)
Four-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Two-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Next, select the report type that fits your needs.
The link for Prospective Students, Parents and the Public gives data on institutional enrollments, student costs, and measures of student success.
Prospective Students, Parents and the Public
Legislators and Other Policy Makers
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 N. Congress Ave. Suite 12.200 Austin, Texas 78701
PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788
Main: 512-427-6101 || Fax: 512-427-6127
Student Loans: 800-242-3062
Institutional Online Resume
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2021 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
Procurement
Procurement - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » About Us » Administrative » Procurement
Procurement Opportunities at the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) include, but are not limited to:Financial Planning ServicesBond Counsel ServicesDevelopment & ImplementationNursing ConsultationFeasibility StudiesProgram Evaluation ServicesInformation Technology ServicesExternal Auditing ServicesComputer Equipment & PeripheralsOffice Furniture & Supplies
Statement of Work 781-4-30061 Managed Services – College and Career Advising
Attachment A – Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement
Attachment B – DIR Shared Technology Services Policy Document
Statement of Work 781-4-30055 Course Sharing Technology Platform
Attachment A – Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement
Attachment B – DIR Shared Technology Services Policy Document
Request for Offers 781-4-29535 OERTX Repository
Attachment C – Anticipated Contract (Reference Only)
Attachment D – Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement
Attachment E – DIR Shared Technology Services Policy Document
The THECB supports transparency in procurement. Texas state government bid opportunities, including those at the THECB, are posted in the Electronic State Business Daily (ESBD).
We are required to solicit pricing from the Centralized Master Bidders List (CMBL). The CMBL is an electronic mail list administered by the Comptroller of Public Accounts which is a database of vendors registered by commodity codes who have provided contact information, commodity codes, and goods/services they offer. If you are not a member, and are interested in obtaining information about the program, you can call the CMBL Help Desk at 512-463-3459 or send an email to e.cmbl@cpa.state.tx.us.
We actively support the Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Program by frequently procuring from HUBs goods and services to support THECB operations.
Certification Regarding Disclosure of Lobbying Activities
Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) Certification
Certification Regarding Debarment and Suspension
The THECB Contract Report is provided in accordance with Texas Government Code (TGC), Section 2261.253, Governor Greg Abbott’s January 28, 2015 directive requiring public disclosure of all no-bid contracts, and Senate Bill 20, 84th Texas Legislature, Regular Session requiring state agencies to post all contracts with private vendors.
The THECB Contracts $100,000 and Above Report is provided in accordance with TGC, Section 2054.126(d)(4).
The THECB’s Procurement and Contract Management Handbook is provided in accordance with TGC, Section 2261.256.
Inquiries regarding procurement opportunities should be directed to the THECB Procurement Team.
Inquiries regarding THECB contracts should be directed to THECB.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Rules & Statutes
Rules & Statutes - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » About Us » Administrative » Rules & Statutes
Rules adopted by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) are part of a larger body of state agency rules that are collected and published by the Office of the Secretary of State as the Texas Administrative Code (TAC). The THECB’s rules are codified under Title 19, Part I, of the TAC. Title 19 is Education and Part I is the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. The THECB may adopt new rules or amendments to existing rules.
The Texas Legislative Council makes Texas Statutes available online. Most of the statutes applicable to the THECB are found in the Education Code, Title 3.
Pursuant to Texas Government Code Section 2001.023(c), THECB provides plain language summaries, in English and Spanish, of all proposed rules. All of the proposed rules described below have been filed with the Texas Secretary of State.
TEC 61.0331 requires the THECB to engage in negotiated rulemaking with institutions of higher education and other affected entities when adopting policies, procedures, or rules relating to certain matters. Information related to NRM committees can be found at Negotiated Rulemaking Committees
THECB does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its programs and activities pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX). The following persons have been designated by THECB to as coordinators under Title IX:
For Title IX inquiries by institutions and required institutional training:
Name and Title: Cathie Maeyaert, Director-Private Postsecondary Institutions
Address: PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788
Email Address: cathie.maeyaert@highered.texas.gov
For Title IX inquiries by employees or job applicants:
Name and Title: Glenn Tramel, Sr. Director-Human Resources
Address: PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788
Email Address: glenn.tramel@highered.texas.gov
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Sitemap
Sitemap - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Annual Internal Audit & Compliance Monitoring Plans
Advisory Council on PSE For Persons With IDD
Certification Advisory Committee
Family Practice Residency Program Advisory Committee
Financial Aid Advisory Committee
Current Formula Advisory Committee Meetings
Learning Technology Advisory Committee
Lower-Division Academic Course Guide Manual Advisory Committee
Non-voting Student Representative on Certain Advisory Committees
Programs of Study Advisory Committees
Architecture and Construction Advisory Committee
Health Science Advisory Committee
Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Advisory Committee
Texas Transfer Advisory Committee
Workforce Education Course Manual (WECM) Advisory Committee
Board Standing Committee Membership
Non-Voting Student Representative
Application Process & Employment Requirements
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Career and Technical Education (CTE) Frequently Asked Questions
Courses, Calendars, and Reporting Frequently Asked Questions
General Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Information and Resources for Higher Education Institutions
Texas Commission on Community College Finance
ADVi / Virtual Advising Project
New Provisions for Plumbing Instruction and Licensure
TASFA Frequently Asked Questions
Career & Technical Education/Workforce Initiatives
Carl D. Perkins Career & Technical Education
Perkins Basic and Leadership Request for Applications
Perkins Basic Request for Applications
Perkins Excellence Access and Opportunity Program Request for Applications
Perkins Portal, Tools, and Data Resources
Perkins State Leadership Grants (RFA)
Perkins V Comprehensive Local Needs Assessment
TXWORKS Internship Program – Employers
TXWORKS Internship Program – Students
Distance Education Modifications & Requests
Higher Education Regional Councils (HERCs)
Private Postsecondary Institution Resources
Fraudulent and Substandard Institutions
Institution and Program Development
Institution and Program Modification
Institutional Annual Reporting & Compliance
Institutional Authorization to Operate in Texas
Recognition of Accrediting Agencies
Student Academic Record or Transcript Requests
FAST Frequently Asked Questions
Integrated Campus Planning System (ICPS)
Report of Fundable Operating Expenses (RFOE)
Institutional Certification and Compliance
Institutional Funding Resources
Community College Financial Condition Report
Formula Funding Recommendations
Institutional Grant Opportunities
Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value Grant Program
Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value Planning Grants
Accelerating Student Success Planning Grants
College Readiness and Completion Models 2021
College Readiness and Completion Models for 60x30TX
College Readiness and Success Models 2020
College Readiness and Success Models 2023 (CRSM-2023)
Comprehensive College Readiness and Success Models for 60x30TX (2016-2018)
Educator Preparation Planning Grant Opportunity
Emergency and Trauma Care Education Partnership Program (ETEP)
Family Medicine Residency Program
GEER II- Nursing Innovation Grant Program
Graduate Medical Education Expansion Programs
Graduate Medical Education Planning and Partnership Grants Program
Minority Health Research and Education Grant Program (MHGP)
Nursing Innovation Grant Program
Nursing Shortage Reduction Program
Open Educational Resources Course Development and Implementation Grant Program
Open Educational Resources Grant Program (State Funded)
Professional Development Program Supporting HB2223
Reporting Modernization Grant (GEER funded)
Statewide Preceptorship Programs
Student Success Acceleration Program – Implementation Grants
Texas Completion Repayment Grant Program
Texas Reskilling and Upskilling for Education (TRUE) Institutional Capacity Grants
Texas Reskilling and Upskilling through Education (TRUE) Grant Program 2022
Texas Reskilling and Upskilling through Education (TRUE) Grant Program 2023
Texas Reskilling Support Fund Grant Program
Texas Science, Engineering, Math, and Science (T-STEM) Challenge Scholarship Program
Work-based Learning Opportunity Grants
College & Career Readiness Standards
Data Resources for LBB Measures (from THED)
Building Replacement Estimate Reports
Mission Statements for Public Universities & Health-Related Institutions
State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA)
60 Semester Credit Hour (SCH) Exemptions
Applied Baccalaureate Degree Program Requests by Public Junior Colleges
New Associate Degree & Certificate Program Requests
New Degree Program & Certificate Requests
Program Rule Changes & Implementation
National Research University Fund (NRUF)
Research Reports, Policies and Resources
Restricted Research Expenditures
Technology Innovation and Commercialization
Governing Board Member Training
Additional Training Requirements & Sources of Information for Members of Governing Boards
Online Training – Community Colleges
Guidance Regarding Perkins Grant Costs and Programmatic Disruptions During the COVID-19 Pandemic
Tuition, Refunds, and Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions
VA Benefits and CARES Act Frequently Asked Questions
ProcurementNew Degree Program & Certificate RequestsPerkins Basic Request for ApplicationsPerkins Excellence Access and Opportunity Program Request for ApplicationsStudent Financial Aid ProgramsPerkins State Leadership Grants (RFA)Carl D. Perkins Career & Technical EducationData Submission & ReportingFormula FundingReport of Fundable Operating Expenses (RFOE)
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 Congress Ave. Suite 12.200
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Texas.gov
Texas.gov LogoFind ServicesExplore TexasResidentBusinessGovernmentTexas by TexasGlobe Icon EnglishSearch IconHamburger IconWelcome to Texas.govTexas.gov is the official website of the State of Texas. From here, weâll guide you to online services, resources, and information around our great state.
Be Cyber Aware!Texans, we want to help you stay safe online and protect your personal information. Check out our Cyber Safety Corner for a variety of useful cybersecurity tips, tools, and resources for all ages. External Link IconVisit Cyber Safety Cornerhome-exploreExplore TexasSee Texas outdoors, recreation, and cultureEnjoy the Lone Star Stateâs parks, historical landmarks, campgrounds, fishing, hunting, exhibits, fairs, and culture. Weâll connect you with what you needâand want to do.
Access Government Services DirectoryAbout UsAbout Texas.govSite PoliciesPrivacy PolicySitemapServicesApply/Renew Vehicle RegistrationRenew/Replace Driver LicenseRequest Driver RecordsOrder Vital RecordsAll ServicesRelated SitesTexas Veterans PortalTexas Open Data PortalTexas Records and Information Locator (TRAIL)SupportHelp & SupportFrequently Asked QuestionsProvide FeedbackCopyright Â©2024 State of Texas. All rights reserved.FacebookA logo that leads to an outside link to facebook.InstagramA logo that leads to an outside link to instagram.TwitterA blue logo from the social network twitter that leads to outside link.
Texas Homeland Security
Border Programs Team | Office of the Texas Governor | Greg Abbott
Office of the Texas Governor | Greg Abbott
Office of the Texas Governor | Greg Abbott
Governor Abbott Overview
Duties, Requirements & Powers
Governor's Budget 2024-2025
Governor's Mansion Overview
Message From Texas First Lady Cecilia Abbott
Mansion History Overview
Interactive History Timeline
Mansion Memento Collection
Mansion Restoration Stories
Timeline Sources & Credits
Mansion Education Curriculum
Friends of the Governor's Mansion
Contact First Lady Office
Budget and Policy Overview
Governor's Budget 2024-2025
Commission for Women Overview
The State Agency Council
Preventing Human Trafficking
Texas Women’s Hall Of Fame
Texas Women’s Hall Of Fame Overview
Outstanding Women in Texas Government
Outstanding Women in Texas Government Overview
Women-Owned Business Series
Women-Owned Business Series Overview
Women-Owned Small Business Pitch Competition
Women-Owned Small Business Pitch Competition Overview
Women-Owned Small Business Pitch Competition Rules
Committee on People with Disabilities
Committee on People with Disabilities Overview
About the Committee Overview
Texas Key Laws & Disability Resources
Texas Key Laws & Disability Resources Overview
Accessible Communications
Accessible Microsoft Office Documents
Accessible Microsoft Office Documents Overview
Creating Accessible Microsoft Office 2013-2016 Documents
Creating Accessible Microsoft Office 2010 Documents
Creating Accessible Microsoft Office 2007 Documents
Building and Physical Accessibility
Communications Technology
Driver's Licenses and Personal IDs
History and Awareness Month Factoids
Intellectual Disabilities Protections
Jurors, Witnesses, and Offenders
Mental Health Resources and Protections
Reasonable Accommodation
Texas Driving with Disability
Accessibility and Disability Policy Webinars
Accessibility and Disability Policy Webinars Overview
Webinar Archive Overview
Disability Related State Strategic Plans
Local Disability Committees
Local Disability Committees Overview
Local Committee Formation Overview
Local Committee Resources
Policy Recommendation Form
Disability Proclamations
Barbara Jordan Media Awards
Barbara Jordan Media Awards Overview
Lex Frieden Employment Awards
Lex Frieden Employment Awards Overview
Disability Employment Awareness Month Poster
Disability Employment Awareness Month Poster Overview
Financial Services Overview
Public Funds Investment Act
Human Resources Overview
Employment Opportunities
Reasonable Accommodations for Individuals with Disabilities - Notice and FAQs
Public Safety Office Overview
Child Sex Trafficking Team
Child Sex Trafficking Team Overview
Research and Resources Overview
Criminal Justice Overview
Criminal Justice Programs
Sexual Assault Survivors’ Task Force
Sexual Assault Survivors’ Task Force Overview
Resources for Survivors Overview
Resources for Professionals
Resources for Professionals Overview
Resources for Law Enforcement
Terrorism Preparedness Overview
Terrorism Preparedness Programs
Texas Crime Stoppers Overview
Starting An Organization
Certification & Funding Overview
Crime Stoppers in the News
Monthly Newsletters Overview
Victims Services Overview
Victims Services Programs
Resources for Applicants & Grantees
Application for Municipal Police Department Budget Reduction
Regulatory Compliance Division
Regulatory Compliance Division Overview
Strike Force to Open Texas
Strike Force to Open Texas Overview
Fiscal Accountability and Federal Liaison
Texas Military Preparedness Commission
Texas Military Preparedness Commission Overview
Texas Office of State-Federal Relations
Texas Office of State-Federal Relations Overview
State Lobbying Disclosure
State Funded Travel to DC
Texas Workforce Investment Council
Texas Workforce Investment Council Overview
Purpose and Functions of the Council
System Partners and Programs
Research and Reports Overview
Adult Education Research
Demographics - Adult Education
Demographics - Mature Workers
Demographics - Disability
The mission of the Border Programs team is to fund grants that increase security along the Texas-Mexico and international water borders. These grants provide resources for increased patrols in order to detect, deter, and disrupt drug, human, and other contraband trafficking and crimes. Other funding is used to provide additional training and prosecution resources to handle cases resulting from border-related crime.
The Border Programs team coordinates with local law enforcement agencies, the Department of Public Safety, the United States Customs and Border Protection, and DHS to encourage the effective use of grant funds for border security operations.
eGrants – eGrants is the online grant management system used by Public Safety Office programs; follow the link to register for an account, submit and certify an application(s), and then manage any grant(s) awarded to your agency.
State Auditor’s Office Fraud Hotline: 1-800-TX-AUDIT
View the State Auditor’s website for more information on reporting fraud, waste, or abuse.
Child Sex Trafficking Team
Sexual Assault Survivors’ Task Force
Resources for Applicants & Grantees
Application for Municipal Police Department Budget Reduction
Office of the Texas Governor
Texas Veterans Portal
iframe for analytics only
License, Records & Medals
The Texas Veterans Portal connects veterans, their families, and caregivers to the benefits and services earned through their military service. Thank you for serving our country!
SEARCH THE TEXAS VETERANS PORTAL
Urgent need? In crisis? GET HELP NOW!
License, Records & Medals
If you're a veteran or service member looking for services in Texas, click the logo to connect with the Texas Veterans Network.
twitter
This browser is no longer supported.
Please switch to a supported browser to continue using twitter.com. You can see a list of supported browsers in our Help Center.
facebook
youtube
instagram
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Home » About Us » Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative Linking Education and Workforce: Spurring Economic Growth Across Texas
Governor Greg Abbott established the Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative in March 2016. Through the Initiative, the Commissioners of the Texas Education Agency (TEA), the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), and the Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) work together to help Texas grow in economic prosperity.
Support efficient and flexible pathways to earning degrees, certificates, and other credentials linked to high-wage, in-demand jobs.
Ensure students receive the supports necessary to succeed at all stages of their educations and in their transitions to the workforce.
Create a robust infrastructure for interagency collaboration around common goals, data, and processes to ensure improved student outcomes and meet employers’ needs.
Learn more about the Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative’s state workforce development goals and strategies on its website.
Inquiries should be directed to Amy.Peterson@highered.texas.gov.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Community College Finance
Community College Finance - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Community College Finance
With the passage of House Bill 8 in 2023, Texas is transforming the way it funds community colleges. Texas is moving away from a static system tied primarily to students’ time in class to a modern and dynamic outcomes-based formula that reflects the needs of our world-class economy. For the first time, we will support community colleges based on specific goals aligned with our state’s higher education strategic plan, Building a Talent Strong Texas, as well as regional and state workforce needs.
the number of high school students who complete 15 semester credit hours in dual credit or dual enrollment courses;
community college students who transfer successfully to public four-year universities or complete 15 semester credit hours in a structured co-enrollment program;
and community college students who earn credentials of value, which offer purpose in the economy, value in the labor market, and opportunities for good jobs and meaningful careers.
Significantly, these outcomes will also be weighted to recognize the higher costs of educating students from economically and academically disadvantaged backgrounds and adult learners.
The new Texas community college finance system rewards colleges for their progress toward our state’s higher educational goals while also ensuring colleges have access to the resources needed to support their mission to educate and train the workforce of the future.
On August 22, 2023, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board approved emergency rules enabling the implementation of the new funding system beginning September 1, 2023. The Board also plans to adopt final rules in January for Fiscal Year 2024, and final rules in April 2024 for FY 2025.
FAST ProgramDig into details, requirements, and need-to-knows for the new FAST dual credit program.
Formula FundingRead about updates for base and performance tier funding models.
Frequently Asked QuestionsFind answers to common questions.
Standing Advisory CommitteeFind out about the advisory committee.
November 17, 2022: The Texas Commission on Community College Finance delivered a report recommending significant changes to the way Texas funds its community colleges
July 27, 2023: Standing Advisory Committee members appointed
August 22, 2023: Consideration and adoption of FY 24 emergency rules
September 1, 2023: House Bill 8 went into effect
January 25, 2024: Adoption of FY 24 regular rules
FY 24 CC Funding Model: a public-facing draft model of FY 24 formula and non-formula support funding for public junior colleges (updated July 14, 2023)
FY 24 CC Funding Summary: a PDF of the draft FY 24 formula funding runs for public junior colleges extracted from FY 24 CC Funding Model (updated July 14, 2023)
FY 24 CC Funding 3Pay: a PDF of the draft FY 24 Three-Pay Schedule for public junior colleges extracted from FY 24 CC Funding Model (updated July 14, 2023)
Commissioner Memorandum: Announcing draft formula funding models for FY 24 (July 14, 2023)
Memorandum to CFOs and Reporting Officials: Detailed information on draft FY 24 formula model (July 14, 2023)
Commissioner Memorandum: Important: Community college finance reform – what you need to know (June 8, 2023)
Inquiries regarding Community College Finance should be sent to Amy Peterson, Assistant Commissioner for Government Relations.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Data Submission & Reporting
Data Submission & Reporting - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Data Submission & Reporting
Instruction manuals, portals, and resources for higher education institutions required to submit facilities, financial and student-level data, documents, and reports to the THECB.
As they are added to the system, specified CBM reports must be submitted for processing through the secure THECB EDC Portal. The CBPass login is used for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions.
For more information on using the EDC Portal (CBPass), follow the procedures listed in this guide.
For any reports not yet available through the EDC Portal, CBM reports must be submitted for processing through the secure THECB MOVEit Portal. MOVEit login credentials are provided to specified institutional users. If you do not have these, contact the data analyst assigned to your institution.
For more information on using the MOVEit Portal, follow the procedures listed in this guide.
Reporting manuals, appendices, and other resources for submitting institution and student-level data to the THECB.
Simple listings for institutions to check the status of CBM reports they have submitted to the THECB.
The Texas CIP codes are used to identify degree and certificate programs, courses, and declared majors on the reports and inventories of the THECB.
Reporting portals and resources for submitting institution-level financial documents and reports to the THECB.
Login for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions to access THECB reporting applications.
Community college annual reporting and analysis tool
Community College Annual Reporting and Analysis Tool (CARAT)
Provides the ability to perform analyses and prepare reports based on Texas public community college Annual Financial Reports (AFR) and Annual Investment Reports (AIR).
The THECB collects financial documents from Texas public institutions of higher education, including Legislative Appropriations Requests (LAR), Operating Budgets (BUD), and Annual Financial Reports (AFR).
Report of Fundable Operating Expenses (RFOE)
The THECB uses the data collected in this report to accurately calculate formula funding rates and disbursements.
Reporting portals and resources for submitting facilities reports to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Login for registered institutional users with appropriate permissions to access Integrated Campus Planning System (ICPS).
Integrated Campus Planning System (ICPS)
Tool for THECB to collect all capital planning data from institutions and agencies.
Resources for facilities inventory, CBM data reporting, and facilities audits.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Facilities Resources
Facilities Resources - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Institutional Resources » Other Institutional Resources » Facilities Resources
Facilities resources for Texas public institutions of higher education, including, where applicable, general academic institutions, health-related institutions, and community, state, and technical colleges.
Building Replacement Estimate Reports
The Building Replacement Estimate Report (formerly Campus Condition Index) provides an overall estimate of the campus’ buildings replacement cost when considering the campus’ deferred maintenance needs. Learn More
The THECB collects and reports information on the capital expenditure plans of public universities, health-related institutions, state, and technical colleges. Learn More
THECB Space Projection Models provide an assessment of space needs at Texas’ public universities, health-related institutions, and state and technical colleges. Learn More
Detail reports statewide and by Texas public higher education institution showing utilization of classroom and class laboratory space. Learn More
Average project construction costs are provided by facility type for Texas public universities and health-related institutions. Learn More
Search Facilities Inventory for buildings at selected higher education institutions. Learn More
Search Facilities Inventory for rooms at selected higher education institutions. Learn More
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Institutional Funding Resources
Institutional Funding Resources - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Institutional Funding Resources
Funding resources for Texas public institutions of higher education, including, where applicable, general academic institutions, health-related institutions, and community, state, and technical colleges.
Overviews providing summaries of how the state of Texas appropriates the majority of funds to state agencies and institutions of higher education through a biennial General Appropriations Act. Also includes analysis that estimates the allocation of appropriations using the information reported by the institutions to the THECB. Learn More
Sources and Uses reports provide annual financial report information by fund group for Texas public institutions of higher education (excluding community colleges). Excel workbooks for Sources and Uses and Research Expenditures are also provided by institution type. Learn More
Community College Financial Condition Report
An overall financial health analysis of Texas public community colleges intended as a general financial evaluation. Learn More
Includes General Academic Institutions Expenditure Study and Community and Technical Colleges Report of Fundable Operating Expenses. Learn More
The Board is mandated to present formula funding recommendations to the Legislative Budget Board on June 1 of even years. Learn More
Tuition and fees data are provided by Texas public higher education institution type. Learn More
A report and associated data in relation to General Appropriations Act, Senate Bill 1, Article III, Section 63, 87th Texas Legislature, Regular Session that requires the Legislative Budget Board and the Coordinating Board to produce a report on COVID-19 related federal aid money to public institutions of higher education. Learn More
Resources used for specific programs that could eliminate, reduce, or waive tuition and fees for individuals who meet certain eligibility criteria while attending public institutions of higher education in Texas.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Higher Education Data
Your Source for Texas Higher Education Data - THECB Data
The primary source for data, statistics, and information on higher education in the state.
Expanding Enrollment Across Communities and Institutions
Texas has set ambitious goals in the past, and we are not backing away from them — instead, we’re raising the bar. Our new strategic plan, Building a Talent Strong Texas, will focus on three measurable, data-driven goals:
Building a Talent Strong Texas expands attainment to include all working-age Texans. In doing so, we can increase employment opportunities and income for individuals, create a deeper talent pool for employers, and align students’ skills with workforce demands.
60% of Texans ages 25-64 will receive a degree, certificate, or other postsecondary credential of value by 2030.
Credentials from Texas institutions of higher education must propel graduates into lasting, successful careers. These careers must equip them for continued learning and greater earning potential, with low or manageable debt.
550,000 students will complete postsecondary credentials of value each year.
95% of students will graduate with no undergraduate student debt or manageable levels of debt in relation to their potential earnings.
Texas must be a leading state in generating knowledge through basic and applied research, and translating that research to innovations, discoveries, and economic development. This requires close partnership among key stakeholders to drive Texas’ economy.
Increase of $1 billion in annual private and federal research and development expenditures by 2030.
7,500 research doctorates awarded annually by Texas institutions of higher education.
Can’t find what you’re looking for? We’re working hard to add more reports and visualizations to this site. If you’re having trouble finding something, you can still access data on our TXHigherEdData (THED) website.
Explore the state’s progress toward our goals for higher education. The THECB Accountability System provides detailed data on the state of higher education in Texas and tracks performance on critical measures.
The almanac provides annual profiles of state and institutional performance. Profiles are created using data and metrics collected by THECB on pre-college and higher education students.
Copyright © 2023 - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. All Rights Reserved.
We value your privacy. This site uses cookies and similar technologies to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By Accept All, you consent to all the cookies.  However, you may modify the cookie settings in your chosen browser for a more controlled consent.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
THECB Accountability System
Texas Higher EducationAccountability System
Measures & Definitions
PUBLIC TWO-YEAR COLLEGES
All Public Two-Year Colleges
Texas State Technical Colleges and Lamar State Colleges
PUBLIC HEALTH-RELATED INSTITUTIONS
NON-TEXAS & CAREER INSTITUTIONS
Four-Year Institutions
Select an institution or group
Create Complete Report (PDF)
Under Resources above, see our
for the latest important information.
Select a category below to see related measures for :
Selected Data for All Public Two-Year Colleges
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 N. Congress Ave. Suite 12.200, Austin, TX 78701 | Main: 512-427-6101
Institutional Online Resumes
Resumes - THECB Applications
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Return to Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
First, select an institution type, institution and year.
Universities (TX public)
Two-year Institutions (TX public)
Health-Related Institutions (TX public)
Four-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Two-Year Career Schools (not TX public)
Next, select the report type that fits your needs.
The link for Prospective Students, Parents and the Public gives data on institutional enrollments, student costs, and measures of student success.
Prospective Students, Parents and the Public
Legislators and Other Policy Makers
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 N. Congress Ave. Suite 12.200 Austin, Texas 78701
PO Box 12788, Austin, TX 78711-2788
Main: 512-427-6101 || Fax: 512-427-6127
Student Loans: 800-242-3062
Institutional Online Resume
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2021 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Conference Manager - Test
Higher EDge Registration-test
Published Reports
Published Reports - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Empowering our Students
Equipping our Workforce
Partnering with Policymakers
Supporting our Institutions
Community College Finance
Data Submission & Reporting
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Data
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Institutional Online Resumes
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
THECB Quarterly Board Meetings
THECB Board Committee Meetings
Governing Board Training
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Home » Explore Our Data » Published Reports
The published reports is the centralized location for all reports published by the THECB. You can search the reports collection by title, category, or year below:
60x30TX Progress Report
Academic Course Guide Manual
Advisory Committee Agendas
Advisory Committee Minutes
Advisory Committee Supporting Documents
Agency Strategic Plan
Annual Financial Report
Annual Financial Report Manual
Annual Internal Audit Reports
Architecture & Construction
Basis of Legislative Appropriations
Blank Forms / Templates
Board Supporting Documents
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Building Replacement Estimate
Capital Expenditure Plans
Career & Technical Education
Closing the Gaps Progress Report
Commissioner Correspondence
Committee Supporting Documents
Community and Technical Colleges
Compliance Monitoring Plans
Compliance Monitoring Reports
Departmental Correspondence
Developmental Ed Data
Developmental Education
Distance Ed Data Universities
Faculty Salaries Universities
Financial Condition Report
Formula Advisory Committee
Four-Year Institutions (not TX Public)
General Academic Institutions
General Correspondence
Health Related Institutions
HS Grads College Matriculation
HS Grads Enrolled District
HS Grads Enrolled High School
HS Grads Preparation TSI
HS Grads Preparation TSIA
Independent Colleges & Universities
Institutional Audience
Internal Audit Reports
Legislative Appropriations Request
Legislative Budget Board
Legislator/Government
Nursing Shortage Reduction Program
Perkins Core Indicator Data
Perkins Data Resources
Perkins Equitable Access and Opportunity Program
Policies & Procedures
Regional Data By Region
Regional Data By Topic
Report of Fundable Operating Expenses
Reports & Studies (Non-Fiscal)
Request for Applications
Research Expenditures
RFO / RFP / RFQ / RFA
Sources and Uses Detail
Sources and Uses Report
Sources and Uses Research
Space Projection Model
State Leadership Grant
Student Migration Report
Texas Research Incentive Program
Texas Success Initiative
Two-Year Institutions (not TX Public)
Undergraduate Applicants
Can't find what you are looking for? Please visit our
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
1801 Congress Ave. Suite 12.200
Austin, TX 78711-2788
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Student Loans: 800-242-3062
Helpful LinksAccessibility
Institutional Online Resume
About Texas.govTexas.gov
Texas Homeland Security
Texas Veterans Portal
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Tri-Agency Workforce Initiative
Building a Talent Strong Texas
Empowering our Students
Equipping our Workforce
Partnering with Policymakers
Supporting our Institutions
Community College Finance
Data Submission & Reporting
Institutional Funding Resources
Texas Higher Education Data
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Institutional Online Resumes
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
THECB Quarterly Board Meetings
THECB Board Committee Meetings
Governing Board Training
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Higher EDge 2023
Higher EDge 2023 - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Thank you for helping make 2023 incredible!
This year had it all – exciting programming, the first ever EDge Expo, and insightful connections between higher ed, business, philanthropy, and other sectors! We enjoyed celebrating the 88th Texas Legislature’s historic investment in higher education and the innovative programs and changes that came from it. Now is the time to seize on these opportunities by transcending the traditional pace of change.
This year’s conference featured programming on artificial intelligence, tech transfer, student success and advising, innovations in digital learning, and more. It also included an address by Texas Governor Greg Abbott, who touted the establishment of the Texas University Fund and community college finance legislation and what these efforts mean for the continued success of the state’s economy.
Our 2023 Star Award recipients are Houston Community College, Texas Southmost College, Texas A&M University, and University of North Texas. We celebrated our five recipients and their accomplishments and contributions to the goals of Building a Talent Strong Texas.
Commissioner Keller delivered his annual The State of Higher Education address and told higher education, industry, and philanthropic leaders that they must transcend the traditional pace of change to meet Texas’ needs and ensure we stay competitive throughout the 21st century.
If you would like to view or share a recording of Commissioner Keller’s The State of Higher Education address, you may do so on the THECB YouTube channel. A transcript of the speech is also available.
We hope you enjoyed every minute of Higher EDge and thank you for making it another great year to look back on!
We can’t wait to welcome you back next year on December 12-13, 2024.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Governing Board Training
Governing Board Member Training - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Home » Our Work » Supporting Our Institutions » Training » Governing Board Member Training
Texas Education Code (Sections 61.084 and 61.0841) and the Texas Government Code (Title 5, Subtitle A, Chapters 551 and 552, and Title 10, Subtitle F, Chapter 2256) require certain training for governing board members of Texas public institutions and systems of higher education. For your convenience, we have compiled a summary of training requirements to assist new governing board members in complying with these requirements. Links to the required training can be found below.
The THECB provides an online orientation course for newly appointed regents and elected trustees for whom attendance at the annual seminar held in Austin would be a hardship; orientation must be completed during the member’s first year of service as a member of a governing board.
Instructions for Completing the Registration and Training Process for Regent/Trustee Online Training
Certificate of completion will not be issued until the registration fee has been received.
Complete the electronic registration form and submit payment (credit card or electronic check only).
View the training videos Community College or University.
When you have watched the training videos, click the button at the foot of the video page to request your certificate of completion.
If you have questions regarding this online training, please contact Mary Mitchell at GBOnlineTraining@highered.texas.gov.
Note: The videos are accessed by clicking on the “Community College” or “University” links above (see step 3).
For Appointed Members of Governing BoardsIntensive Short Course
Before voting on a budgetary or personnel matter, each governing board member who holds an appointive position and whose first year of service on the governing board begins on or after January 1, 2016, must complete the intensive short orientation course that includes best practices and transparency in trusteeship and governance.
Instructions for Completing the Intensive Short Course
When you have watched the video, complete the assessment found at Intensive Short Course Assessment.
Upon completion of the assessment, send a notification email to Mary Mitchell at GBOnlineTraining@highered.texas.gov. A certificate will be issued upon successful completion.
Higher Education Leadership ConferenceIn-Person Event
The THECB conducts an annual orientation seminar in Austin for newly appointed regents and elected trustees; orientation must be completed during the member’s first year of service as a member of a governing board.
Additional Training Requirements & Sources of InformationResources
Information for members of governing boards regarding open meetings, open records, and public funds investment training.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
Guidelines for Public Testimony
Public Testimony - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) generally holds its regular meetings on the fourth Thursday of every January, April, July, and October. Board committee meetings are generally held the fourth Wednesday of every January, April, July, and October. Notice is provided in advance of the time and location of all public meetings through the Texas Register.
Written testimony, in lieu of oral testimony, may be submitted by mail, fax (downloadable Word document) or online using the public testimony forms. Deadline to submit written testimony is 24 hours prior to the meeting. Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the presiding chair. All written testimony will be publicly posted to the THECB website.
Registering to testify: Individuals wishing to testify must register via mail, fax, online using the online public testimony form, or by contacting Mary Mitchell at 512-427-6566 or Mary.Mitchell@highered.texas.gov at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the presiding chair.
Order of testimony: The order of public testimony shall be in the order in which individuals signed up to speak on the various agenda items. The presiding chair shall designate whether oral public testimony shall be taken at the beginning of the meeting, at the time the related item is taken up by the Board after staff has presented the item, or any other time as determined by the presiding chair. Individuals may only provide testimony relating to an item on the agenda.
Time limits: Testimony by individuals and organizations is limited to three minutes, unless otherwise stated in advance by the presiding chair. Only one representative per organization will be allowed to speak.
Testifying: Individuals testifying are asked to state their name and organization (if applicable) for the record. When called to testify, individuals must begin their testimony by stating “For the record my name is ______ and I am representing _______.”
Providing handouts to supplement oral testimony: When a person is called to testify, he/she shall provide one copy of the handout(s), if any, to THECB staff. If individuals wish to provide the handout(s) to all Board members, 10 additional copies must be provided to THECB staff for distribution.
Special accommodations: Individuals who may require auxiliary aids or services for this meeting should contact Glenn Tramel, ADA Coordinator, at 512-427-6193 or Glenn.Tramel@highered.texas.gov at least five days before the meeting so that appropriate arrangements can be made.
Inquiries regarding public testimony should be directed to Mary Mitchell.
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
News & Media
News & Media - Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Hit enter to search or ESC to close
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
Media ReleasesTHECB Chair Fred Farias honored by University of North TexasDecember 19, 2023
Media ReleasesInstitutions Across Texas Recognized by THECB for Building a Talent Strong TexasDecember 12, 2023
Media ReleasesHigher EDge leadership conference to focus on key issues facing higher edNovember 30, 2023
Media ReleasesTHECB approves rules implementing community college funding systemSeptember 07, 2023
Media ReleasesNew online tool aims to close skills gap and help more Texans plan for their futureAugust 28, 2023
Media ReleasesTHECB wins 2023 Exceptional Agency AwardAugust 07, 2023
THECB NewsWith THECB Scholarship Programs, Texans Can Access and Afford College OpportunitiesNovember 30, 2023
THECB NewsMy Texas Future: Because Texas Students’ Future Is Our FutureAugust 28, 2023
THECB NewsA New Plan for Community College Funding to Fuel Texas’ Economic SuccessAugust 09, 2023
THECB NewsThe 88th Legislature: A Texas-sized Investment in Higher EducationJune 06, 2023
Strategic PlanBoard & CommissionerBoard MeetingsTexas Higher Education DataTexas Higher Education AlmanacContact:
mike.eddleman@highered.texas.gov
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
In Texas and across the country, our economy is racing forward in directions that require far greater skills, more education, and more credentials for a good job than ever before.Commissioner Harrison Keller
Address Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board
Main: 512-427-6101 | Fax: 512-427-6127
Texas Records & Information Locator (TRAIL)
State Auditor’s Office Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hotline
© 2024 Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeinstagram
Texas Higher Education Foundation
Texas Higher Education Accountability System
Texas Public Higher Education Almanac
