Topic - "MASSACHUSETTS TITLE IX DOCUMENTATION"

Democratic State (Blue Region) (This is crawled data)

Massachusetts law about sexual harassment | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Massachusetts law about sexual harassment, is
for the law library, Massachusetts law about sex and sex crimes
for the law library, Massachusetts law about victims and witnesses
Defending against a domestic abuse restraining order (209A)
Massachusetts law about employment and employment leave
Massachusetts law about employment and employment leave
for the law library, Massachusetts law about employment and employment leave
Laws, regulations, cases, and web & print sources on sexual harassment, including in the workplace, in housing, and in educational settings.
If you are unable to find the information you are looking for, or if you have a specific question, please contact our law librarians for assistance.
§ 1: DefinitionsSexual harassment is sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
a) submission or rejection thereof become the basis for employment decisions or a term or condition of employment. (Quid pro quo) or
b) it has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating or sexually offensive work environment. (Hostile work environment)
§ 3A Employers' policies against sexual harassment; preparation of model policy; education and training programs
§ 5 Complaints; procedure; limitations; bar to proceeding; award of damages
"Any complaint filed pursuant to this section must be so filed [with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (MCAD)] within 300 days after the alleged act of discrimination."
§ 9 Construction and enforcement of chapter; inconsistent laws; exclusiveness of statutory procedure; civil remedies; speedy trial; attorney's fees and costs; damages
"Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a practice made unlawful under this chapter or under chapter one hundred and fifty-one C, or by any other unlawful practice within the jurisdiction of the commission, may, at the expiration of ninety days after the filing of a complaint with the commission, or sooner if a commissioner assents in writing, but not later than three years after the alleged unlawful practice occurred, bring a civil action for damages or injunctive relief or both in the superior or probate court for the county in which the alleged unlawful practice occurred or in the housing court within whose district the alleged unlawful practice occurred if the unlawful practice involves residential housing."
MGL c.214, § 1C Superior Court jurisdiction in sexual harassment cases
Statute of limitations is 3 years for civil rights actions.
804 CMR 3.01(4)(a)(4) MCAD discrimination in employment
Model sexual harassment policy (MCAD Policy, revised 2017-09-16)
9 USC §§ 401-402 Disputes involving sexual assault and sexual harassment
The law allows employees subject to pre-dispute mandatory arbitration agreements to pursue in court their claims related to sexual assault or sexual harassment.
20 USC §1681 et seq. Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972
Prohibits sex (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, and gender identity) discrimination - including sexual harassment - in any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.
42 USC 2000e et seq. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination that violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Title VII applies to employers with 15 or more employees, including state and local governments. It also applies to employment agencies and to labor organizations, as well as to the federal government.
42 USC 3601 et seq. Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (also known as the Fair Housing Act)
Prohibits discrimination - including sexual harassment - concerning the sale, rental, and financing of housing based on race, religion, national origin, sex, (and as amended) handicap and family status.
42 USC 5309 Nondiscrimination in programs and activities
Section 109 of the HCD Act of 1974, Title I, prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability, age, religion, and sex within Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) programs or activities.
24 CFR § 100.600 Discriminatory conduct under the Fair Housing Act: Quid pro quo and hostile environment harassment
29 CFR 1604.11 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: Sexual harassment
34 CFR 106 U.S. Department of Education: Non-discrimination while participating in education programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance
Added "sexual harassment" to the Military Manual for Courts Martial.
File a sexual harassment complaint with EEOC, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Housing discrimination, Mass Access Housing Registry.
If you feel that you have been discriminated against by a real estate agent, landlord, or housing manager it is important to do something about it.
How to file a complaint with MCAD, Mass. Commission Against Discrimination.
Learn how to protect yourself from sexual harassment at the workplace.
OCR complaint forms, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education.
This page provides specific and detailed information that will assist you in filing a complaint with the Office for Civil Rights (OCR) at the Department of Education.
Report housing discrimination, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
You can Report Housing Discrimination with Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) online, email or in person.
Selected court cases on the topic of sexual harassment
About sexual harassment in the workplace, Mass. Commission Against Discrimination.Learn about what activities are considered sexual harassment in the workplace and how your rights are protected by the MCAD. Includes guidelines for complying with MGL chapter 151B.
Attorney General advisory: All tenants have a right to be free from harassment and intimidation, Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts.
The Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts issues this advisory to remind landlords and other housing providers that all tenants have a right to be free from harassment and intimidation.
Can I be safe from sexual harassment in my home?, masslegalhelp.org.
It is against the law for your "landlord" and other tenants to sexually harass you.
Eastern Massachusetts Association of Community Theatres (EMACT), in partnership with an HR attorney, has created a harassment policy package that can be used by their member groups to define ethical standards of behavior and requirements. The document is customizable for groups of actors and producers.
Employer's responses to sexual harassment, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Center for Employment Equity.
The report examines employer responses and the outcomes of 46,210 Title VII sexual harassment discrimination charges filed between 2012 and 2016 with the U.S Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and state Fair Employment Practices Agencies (FEPAs).
Enforcement guidance: vicarious employer liability for unlawful harassment by supervisors, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Know your rights: Survivors of sexual harassment, southcoastfairhousing.org.
Sexual harassment includes any unwanted sexual advance, request for sexual favors, or other unwelcome verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
Questions and answers for small employers on employer liability for harassment by supervisors, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Questions and answers on the Title IX regulations on sexual harassment, U. S. Department Of Education, Office for Civil Rights (Updated June 28, 2022).
In May 2020, the U.S. Department of Education added specific legally binding steps educational institutions must take in response to notice of alleged sexual harassment. The 2020 amendments define sexual harassment to include certain types of unwelcome sexual conduct, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking. This document details a school’s obligation and provides clarification on that definition.
Resources on discrimination and harassment, Mass. Dept. of Education.
A sampling of resources on discrimination and harassment, most of which are from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights.
Schools must comply with new Title IX regulations, Massachusetts Municipal Association.
Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, including sexual harassment, in all education programs and activities that receive federal financial assistance, including K-12 schools. The 2020 Title IX regulations, announced by the U.S. Department of Education on May 6 and effective on Aug. 14, focus exclusively on handling sexual harassment complaints.
Sexual harassment in housing, DOJ, District of Massachusetts.
The Sexual Harassment in Housing Initiative is an effort by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Rights Division to combat sexual harassment in housing by addressing sexual harassment by landlords, property managers, maintenance workers, loan officers or other people who have control over housing.
Sexual harassment in housing, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Sexual Harassment Officer listing, Massachusetts Human Resources Division.For state employees only. Each organization across the Commonwealth has an employee designated as a Sexual Harassment Officer whose responsibility is to discuss any concerns the employee may have and to provide information to them about the Commonwealth’s policy on sexual harassment and the Commonwealth’s complaint process.
Summary of major provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX final rule
Drafting employment documents in Massachusetts, 4th ed., MCLE, Loose-leaf, Chapter 15 and 16.
Emerging issues in Title IX compliance, investigations & litigation, by Scott A. Roberts, MCLE, 2019.
Employment discrimination, by Lex Larson, Matthew Bender, loose-leaf, chap. 46.
Employment discrimination in Massachusetts, 3rd ed., MCLE, 2022, Chapter 8.
Discusses employer liability for supervisor’s conduct under Mass and Federal law.
Employment law, 3rd. (Mass Practice v.45), Thomson Reuters, 2016 with supplement. Sections 8.27-8:30.
The essential guide to workplace investigations, Nolo, 2022. (eBook available here with library card).
Litigating sexual harassment & sex discrimination cases, by Aaron B. Maduff, James Publishing, Inc., [2014]-
Massachusetts employment law, 5th ed., MCLE, loose-leaf, Chapters 11, 12.
Preventing & handling sexual harassment in the #metoo era, MCLE, 2019.
Sexual harassment and retaliation : a practical handbook for plaintiff and defense, ABA, 2019.
Sexual harassment in the workplace : law and practice, by Alba Conte. Fifth edition. Wolters Kluwer, [2020]-
"When is Supervisor's or Coemployee's Hostile Environment Sexual Harassment Imputable to Employer Under State Law," 94 ALR5th 1.
Your rights in the workplace by Sachi Barreiro, Nolo, 2018. (eBook available here with library card).
Email Trial Court Law Libraries at masslawlib@gmail.com
Massachusetts law about harassment, stalking, or intentional infliction of emotional distress
Massachusetts law about bullying and cyberbullying
Email Trial Court Law Libraries at masslawlib@gmail.com
Massachusetts law about harassment, stalking, or intentional infliction of emotional distress
Massachusetts law about bullying and cyberbullying
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
File a sexual harassment complaint with EEOC
Sexual Harassment | U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
An official website of the United States government
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive
information only on official, secure websites.
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Any of these words (optional)
The Commission and The General Counsel
Laws, Regulations, Guidance and MOUs
Commissioner Charges and Directed Investigations
Office of Civil Rights, Diversity and Inclusion
Filing a Charge of Discrimination
National Origin Discrimination
Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity
Commissioner Charges and Directed Investigations
Small Business Resource Center
Making an Employment Decision?
Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity
Federal Agency EEO Directors
Laws, Regulations, Guidance & MOUs
Management Directives & Federal Sector Guidance
Federal Employees & Job Applicants
Federal Sector Alternative Dispute Resolution
Resources in Other Languages
繁體中文 - Chinese (Traditional)
Kreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian Creole)
The EEOC invites the public to comment on its proposed “Enforcement Guidance on Harassment in the Workplace”  through https://www.regulations.gov/document/EEOC-2023-0005-0001 until November 1.”
It is unlawful to harass a person (an applicant or employee) because of that person's sex. Harassment can include "sexual harassment" or unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical harassment of a sexual nature.
Harassment does not have to be of a sexual nature, however, and can include offensive remarks about a person's sex. For example, it is illegal to harass a woman by making offensive comments about women in general.
Both victim and the harasser can be either a woman or a man, and the victim and harasser can be the same sex.
Although the law doesn't prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or isolated incidents that are not very serious, harassment is illegal when it is so frequent or severe that it creates a hostile or offensive work environment or when it results in an adverse employment decision (such as the victim being fired or demoted).
The harasser can be the victim's supervisor, a supervisor in another area, a co-worker, or someone who is not an employee of the employer, such as a client or customer.
عربي (Arabic)简体中文 (Chinese, Simplified)繁體中文 - Chinese (Traditional)EnglishKreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian Creole)한국어 (Korean)Русском (Russian)Español (Spanish)Tagalog (Tagalog)Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)فارسی (Persian. Farsi)پښتو (Pashto)
180 days to file a charge(may be extended by state laws)
Federal employees have 45 days to contact an EEO Counselor
Fact Sheet: Sexual Harassment Discrimination
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
Regulations: 29 C.F.R. Part 1604.11
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone)
For Deaf/Hard of Hearing callers:
1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone)
Find your nearest EEOC office
Housing discrimination
Both federal and state fair housing laws protect people with physical and mental disabilities and provide rights to help them rent apartments and maintain their tenancies. If you feel that you have been discriminated against by a real estate agent, landlord, or housing manager it is important to do something about it.
Refusing to rent to you. For example, landlords or housing managers cannot refuse to rent to a person with a disability because their income is too low if they accept non-disabled applicants with the same income.
Offering you different terms and conditions for your lease. For example, landlords or housing managers cannot require that you, and not other tenants, pay an extra security deposit.
Refusing to reasonably accommodate the needs of a person with disability in order to allow that person to occupy and fully enjoy the unit. For example, a landlord cannot evict a person who is blind for having a service animal.
There are legitimate reasons that a landlord or housing manager can deny your application for the unit, such as an inability to pay the rent that is asked or a history of non-payment of rent or violence, as long as the landlord applies the same standards to all tenants.
Write it down. As soon as you feel you have been discriminated against, write down everything that happened including the date, the time of day, the address and phone number of the person you talked to, everything you said and everything the person said. If you answered a newspaper ad, keep the ad.
Try to arrange to have a test done. Testing is a method used to investigate a landlord or real estate agent to determine if they are illegally discriminating against you. You should contact an agency that does testing:
These agencies will send two testers to the same landlord or real estate agent. If you think you have been discriminated against because of your disability, both testers will give the same information you did about income, household size, type and price of housing you are looking for, etc but one tester will have a disability and the other will not. The test will determine if there is enough proof that discrimination occurred and you can use that proof to file a complaint.
File a complaint. If you think you have been discriminated against, you have the right to file a complaint directly with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (MCAD) (link), HUD (link), your local fair housing or human rights commission or a court. You should also consider getting an attorney to assist you with this.
To find a local legal services office, visit: www.masslegalhelp.org. You can also contact The Fair Housing Center of Greater Boston at 617-399-0491 or the Massachsetts Fair Housing Center at 800-675-7309 (for Western or Central MA).
CHAPA Homebuyer Workshop Calendar Home Remodeling for Disability & Special Needs ResourcesHousing Search Guide for People with DisabilitiesILC Contact InformationLocal Housing Authority ListingMBHP Online Apartment Listing ServiceMass Housing Consumer Education CentersMass211MassAccess Replacement Notice and Additional InformationMassachusetts Fair Housing CenterRegional Administering Agencies Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Resources for Multifamily Assisted HousingGlossaryAdditional Resources for People with Disabilities Housing Fact SheetsHousing Search Guide for People with DisabilitiesSubsidized HousingRental Assistance FAQHousing Search StrategiesReasonable AccommodationsHousing DiscriminationUnderstanding Waiting ListsReasonable Accommodations - Information for ManagersCommonly Asked Questions for Managers of Accessible HousingMassachusetts Fair Housing Law
How to report sexual harassment
We’ve found several matches in your area. Please tell us how they can get in touch for a free consultation.
By submitting this form I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and consent to be contacted by Martindale-Nolo and its affiliates, and up to three attorneys regarding this request and to receiving relevant marketing messages by automated means, text and/or prerecorded messages at the number provided. Consent is not required as a condition of service, Click here to agree without providing consent to be contacted by automated means, text and/or prerecorded messages. Rates may apply.
You should not send any sensitive or confidential information through this site. Any information sent through this site does not create an attorney-client relationship and may not be treated as privileged or confidential. The lawyer or law firm you are contacting is not required to, and may choose not to, accept you as a client. The Internet is not necessarily secure and emails sent through this site could be intercepted or read by third parties.
In legal terms, sexual harassment is any unwelcome sexual advance or conduct on the job that creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. In real life, workplace sexual harassment ranges from repeated offensive or belittling jokes to a workplace full of offensive pornography (creating a hostile work environment) to an outright sexual assault. Although sexual harassment most often takes the form of men harassing women, it can happen to men and women, gay and straight -- in other words, sexual harassment is an equal opportunity offense.
Fortunately, state and federal laws protect workers from sexual harassment on the job -- the same laws that protect workers from discrimination based on gender. At the federal level, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act forbids harassment. In addition, most states have their own fair employment practices laws that prohibit sexual harassment, many of them stricter than the federal law.
If you are being sexually harassed at work, there are a number of things that you should do to protect yourself.
Initially, you can try telling the harasser to stop. Although this confrontation may be difficult for you, it is often the most effective way of dealing with harassment. You're more likely to be successful if the harassment hasn't gone beyond things like off-color jokes, inappropriate comments about your appearance, or tacky cartoons posted onto the office refrigerator.
Clearly saying you want the offensive behavior to stop is important, because it lets the harasser know that the behavior is unwelcome (which it must be in order to meet the legal definition of sexual harassment). It is also a crucial first step if you later decide to take more formal action against the harasser.
If the harasser ignores your oral requests to stop, or if you are uncomfortable talking to the harasser face to face, write a brief letter stating that the behavior offends you and must stop. Be sure to keep a copy.
If you are concerned for your personal safety or are afraid that the harasser might become more hostile when confronted, complain to a supervisor instead.
If confronting the harasser doesn't end the harassment, you should escalate your complaint within the company. Check your company's employee handbook, personnel policies, or manual. Is there a sexual harassment or complaint policy? If so, follow it. If not, ask your supervisor or someone in the human resources or personnel department how to make a sexual harassment complaint. If you don't get the help you need, move up the chain of command to managers and executives, documenting along the way. (See below for tips on how to document your actions.)
Although it is often difficult to make a complaint at work, and you may prefer to skip this step, don't. The U.S. Supreme Court has said that employees who fail to use their employer's internal complaint procedure to make the company aware of sexual harassment, and to give the company a chance to stop it, may not be allowed to hold the company liable in a lawsuit. This means that you are likely to lose in court, should it come to that, if you don't complain within the company first.
Even if your company doesn't have a formal complaint procedure, you should put the company on notice of the harassment. You can do this by making a complaint to the human resources department, telling your supervisor (or his or her supervisor) about the problem, or informing a company executive.
It is very important to document what is happening to you, and what you are doing to try to stop it, should you ever have to prove your case to a company investigator, a government agency, or a jury.
Start by collecting as much detailed evidence as possible about the harassment. Be sure to save any offensive letters, photographs, cards, or notes you receive. If you were made to feel uncomfortable because of jokes, pin-ups, or cartoons posted at work, confiscate them -- or at least make copies. An anonymous, obnoxious photo or joke posted on a bulletin board is not anyone else's personal property, so you are free to take it down and keep it as evidence. If that's not possible, photograph the workplace walls. Note the dates the offensive material was posted -- and whether there were hostile reactions when you took it down or asked someone else to do so.
Also, keep a detailed journal about incidents of harassment. Include the names of everyone involved, what happened, and where and when it took place. If anyone else saw or heard the harassment, note that as well. Be as specific as possible about what was said and done -- and how it affected you, your health, or your job performance. Keep your journal and notes at home or in a safe place outside of work.
Make sure you have copies of your performance evaluations and other important personnel documents. In fact, you may want to ask for a copy of your entire personnel file before complaining about a harassing coworker. Your records can be particularly persuasive evidence if your employer retaliates against you for complaining -- which is also illegal. For example, you'll want a copy of your records if you've had positive performance evaluations until you complain, and then your employer tries to transfer, demote, or fire you, or claims your job performance is poor.
If complaining to your employer doesn't help, the next step is to go to either the federal agency that enforces Title VII -- the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission -- or to your state fair employment office. If investigation and settlement attempts fail to produce satisfactory results, you can file a civil lawsuit for damages under either Title VII or your state fair employment practices statute.
Even if you intend right from the beginning to file a lawsuit, you sometimes must first file a claim with a government agency. For example, an employee pursuing a claim under federal law must first file a claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), and a similar complaint procedure is required under state laws.
The EEOC or state agency may decide to prosecute your case on your behalf, but that happens rarely. More commonly, at some point, the agency will issue you a document referred to as a "right-to-sue" letter, which allows you to take your case to court with your own lawyer.
Note, however, that there are time limits for filing claims with government agencies and for filing a lawsuit, so be sure not to miss them.
Please select...Airplane Business TransactionsAsbestosAsylumAuto AccidentAuto Accident (Spanish)AviationAviation AccidentsBaby FormulaBankruptcyBedsoresBelviqBusinessCPAPCamp LejeuneCarbon MonoxideChild CustodyChild Sexual AbuseChild SupportChurch Sexual AbuseCivil RightsCollaborative DivorceCommercial Real EstateConsumer ProtectionCovid-19Criminal DefenseDUI and DWIDebt SettlementDeportationDivorceDivorce MediationEarplugsElmironEmploymentEnvironmentEstate PlanningExpungementFamilyForeclosureGreen CardHeartburnHernia MeshIVCImmigration LawIntellectual PropertyLandlord and TenantLegal MalpracticeLitigationLong Term DisabilityMaritimeMedical MalpracticeMesotheliomaMilitary DivorceNursing Home or Elder AbuseOvertime PayParagardParaquatPatentsPersonal InjuryProbateProduct LiabilityReal EstateRideshare AssaultRideshare InjurySSDISSDITestSecuritiesSex CrimesSexual HarassmentTalcum PowderTaxTexas Power OutageTraffic TicketsTrucking AccidentUS CitizenshipUS VisaUnemploymentVapingVeterans DisabilityWeed KillerWorkers CompensationWrongful DeathWrongful Termination
Copyright ©2024 MH Sub I, LLC dba Nolo ® Self-help services may not be permitted in all states. The information provided on this site is not legal advice, does not constitute a lawyer referral service, and no attorney-client or confidential relationship is or will be formed by use of the site. The attorney listings on this site are paid attorney advertising. In some states, the information on this website may be considered a lawyer referral service. Please reference the Terms of Use and the Supplemental Terms for specific information related to your state. Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Supplemental Terms, Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Report housing discrimination
Report Housing Discrimination | HUD.gov / U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Press RoomProgram OfficesResourcesFind ShelterState InfoContact UsInformación en Español
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
If you believe your rights may have been violated, we encourage you to report housing discrimination. Because there are time limits on when an allegation can be filed with HUD after an alleged violation, you should report housing discrimination as soon as possible. When reporting housing discrimination, please provide as much information as possible, including:
The name and address of the person(s) or organization your allegation is against
The address or other identification of the housing or program involved
A short description of the event(s) that cause you to believe your rights were violated
You can Report Housing Discrimination with FHEO online in English (also available in Español, 中文, Tiếng Việt, 한국인, العربية, Русский, ខ្មែរ, and Soomaali)
We speak your language! Talk with an FHEO intake specialist by calling:
You can also call your regional FHEO office at the phone numbers on this list.
You can print out this form (also available in Español, 中文, Tiếng Việt, 한국인, عربي, Русский, ខ្មែរ, and Soomaali) and mail it to your regional FHEO office at the address on this list.
HUD welcomes and is prepared to receive calls from individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, as well as individuals with speech or communication disabilities.  To learn more about how to make an accessible telephone call, please visit Telecommunications Relay Service - TRS.
Assistance for Persons with Limited English Proficiency
You can report housing discrimination in any language. For persons with limited English proficiency, HUD provides interpreters. HUD also provides a Spanish language version of the online report housing discrimination form. You can find descriptions of your fair housing rights in several languages other than English here.
It is illegal to retaliate against any person for making an allegation, testifying, assisting, or participating in any manner in a proceeding under HUD’s allegation process at any time, even after the investigation has been completed. The Fair Housing Act also makes it illegal to retaliate against any person because that person reported a discriminatory practice to a housing provider or other authority. The Violence Against Women Act also makes it illegal for a public housing agency, owner, or manager of housing assisted under a VAWA covered housing program to retaliate against someone for seeking or exercising VAWA protections for themself or another. This includes protection for people who testify, assist, or participate in any VAWA matter on their own, or another’s, behalf. If you believe you have experienced retaliation, you can report housing discrimination.
FHEO investigates allegations, which may be one or both of the following types:
Discrimination under the Fair Housing Act (including housing that is privately owned and operated)
Discrimination in renting or buying a home, getting a mortgage, seeking housing assistance, or engaging in other housing-related activities
Fair Housing Act (race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), familial status, disability)
Anyone who has been or will be harmed by a discriminatory housing practice
Property owners, property managers, developers, real estate agents, mortgage lenders, homeowners associations, insurance providers, and others who affect housing opportunities
Discrimination and other civil rights violations in housing and community development programs, including those funded by HUD
Discrimination and other violations of civil rights in HUD programs (for example, failure to ensure meaningful access by persons with limited English proficiency)
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (race, color, national origin); Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (race, color, national origin, religion, sex); Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (disability); Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (disability); Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (disability); Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (age); Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 (sex)
Any recipient or subrecipient of HUD financial assistance, States, local governments, and private entities operating housing and community development and other types of services, programs, or activities
Discrimination Under the Violence Against Women Act
Discrimination in accessing housing or assistance, being evicted from housing, or having your assistance terminated because you are a survivor of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; failure to receive notice of occupancy rights or certification form under VAWA; being denied housing or housing-related rights or otherwise penalized for reporting crimes and emergencies; or being retaliated against for seeking or exercising VAWA rights for yourself or another.
Violence Against Women Act (survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking; certain VAWA protections apply regardless of being a survivor (right to report crimes and emergencies; protections from retaliation)).
Anyone who has been or will be harmed by a discriminatory housing practice under VAWA.
With respect to most of the Violence Against Women Act, any individual or entity under a covered housing program that has responsibility for the administration and/or oversight of VAWA protections, including a public housing agency, sponsor, owner, mortgager, manager, State and local government or its agency, nonprofit or for-profit organization or entity. Additionally, allegations may be filed against anyone who violates the right to report crimes and emergencies.
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Housing Discrimination Under the Fair Housing Act
Housing Choice Voucher and Public Housing Complaints
Privacy Act Statement: The information submitted to HUD may be used to investigate and process claims of housing and other types of discrimination. It may be disclosed for lawful investigatory purposes, including to the U.S. Department of Justice for its use in the filing of pattern and practice suits of housing discrimination or the prosecution of the person(s) who committed the discrimination where violence is involved; the public, where appropriate; and to State or local fair housing agencies that administer substantially equivalent fair housing laws for allegation processing. Though disclosure of the information is voluntary, failure to provide some or all of the requested information may result in the delay or denial of help with your housing discrimination allegation.
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
Privacy Policy       |       Web Policies       |       Accessibility       |       Sitemap
Privacy Policy  |  Web Policies  |  Accessibility  |  Sitemap
Can I be safe from sexual harassment in my home?
Can I be safe from sexual harassment in my home? | MassLegalHelp
You are hereEnglish » Basic Legal Information » Domestic Violence » Housing » Sexual Harassment
Want to share what you like about MassLegalHelp with us?
Can I be safe from sexual harassment in my home?
No ColorBrightDarkBluesGrayNight GrayNight Blues
Produced by  Community Legal AidCreated  February, 2021
It is against the law for your “landlord” and other tenants to sexually harass you.   Your “landlord” can be:
Someone who works for your housing agency.
Someone your landlord hires, like their property manager, security guards, and repair people.
Your landlord and other tenants are not allowed to:
Touch or grope you without your permission.
Ask or pressure you for sexual acts in exchange for things like reduced rent, repairs or to stop an eviction.
They do not have to ask for sexual acts in words. But the conversation you have with them, or the actions they take, make you understand what they are asking for.
Ask for more rent, refuse to fix bad conditions, or evict you if you say “no” to sexual advances.
Your “landlord” and other tenants may be harassing you sexually even if:
They give you a benefit, like reduced rent, in exchange.
The harassment is only verbal. It does not have to be physical.
They only harass you once, if it was extreme.
You are behind in rent or your landlord wants to evict you.
They threaten to evict you or refuse to make repairs. They do not have to evict you or fail to make the repairs to harass you sexually.
They do not threaten you in words, but the conversation you have with them, or the actions they take, make you feel threatened.
Is it sexual harassment if I went along with it?
You were harassed sexually even if you said “okay,” “yes,” or went along with unwelcome sexual requests.
How can I stop my landlord or other tenants from harassing me sexually?
Ask your landlord to tell the person to stop harassing you. Keep a copy of your letter or email. Your landlord cannot interfere with your “quiet enjoyment” of your apartment. Your landlord must stop their employee from sexually harassing you. Your landlord must try to stop other tenants from harassing you.
As soon as someone harasses you sexually, write down everything you can remember. The more information, the better. You may not remember all the details later. Your notes can be your strongest evidence if you need to defend yourself from eviction or sue your landlord.
The date, time of day, and place where they harassed you.
The address and phone number of the people involved.
Everything the other person said. Write all the details, even if they do not seem important.
The names and addresses of anyone who may have seen or heard it.
All inappropriate texts, emails, letters, or other messages that the person sends you.
Copies of all the texts, emails, and letters where you asked the person to stop.
A screenshot of any message that might go away like in Snapchat.
It is only legal to record audio in Massachusetts if everyone knows they are being recorded.
Ask for a transfer to a different apartment if you live in a large building or public housing.
Ask the court for a Harassment Prevention Order. If you get a Harassment Prevention Order, it is a crime for the person to harass you. See Harassment Prevention (258E) Orders.
Sue your landlord. 1See Taking Your Landlord to Court.  It may also be discrimination.
Use sexual harassment and discrimination as a defense or counterclaim if your landlord tries to evict you. See Legal Defenses and Counterclaims.
File a complaint with the Mass Commission Against Discrimination.2
File a complaint with the Department of Justice (DOJ). The DOJ can investigate to see if other tenants were sexually harassed.  The DOJ can sue your landlord.
If you live in public housing, you can file a complaint with the Office of Housing and Urban Development.3
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
Please tell us why you did not find this helpful.
CAPTCHAPlease help us cut down on spam. Type the letters you see into the box below.
Enter the characters shown in the image.
You may be able to get free legal help from your local legal aid program. Or email a question about your own legal problem to a lawyer.
View the results at Google, or enable JavaScript to view them here.
Help for Elders and Those with Disabilities
EMACT sexual harassment policy package
EMACT Sexual Harassment Policy - Eastern Massachusetts Association of Community Theatres
Accountability in Community Theater
2022 - 2023 DASH Nominees and Winners
2021-2022 DASH Nominees and Winners
2021-22 DASH Consultants' Choice Winners
2020-21 DASH Consultants' Choice Winners
2019 - 2020 DASH Outstanding Achievement
2018 - 2019 DASH Nominees and Winners
2017 - 2018 DASH Nominees and Winners
2016 - 2017 DASH Nominees and Winners
2015 - 2016 DASH Nominees and Winners
2014 - 2015 DASH Nominees and Winners
2013-2014 DASH Nominees and Winners
2012-2013 DASH Nominees and Awards
2011-2012 DASH Nominees and Awards
2010-2011 DASH Nominees and Awards
2009-2010 DASH Nominees and Awards
2008-2009 DASH Nominees and Awards
2007-2008 DASH Nominees and Awards
2006-2007 DASH Nominees and Awards
2005-2006 DASH Nominees and Awards
2004-2005 DASH Nominees and Awards
2003-2004 DASH Nominees and Awards
EMACT Festival Nominees and Winners
2014 Festival Nominees and Winners
2012 Festival Nominees and Winners
2010 Festival Nominees and Winners
2008 Festival Nominees and Winners
2007 Festival Nominees and Winners
2006 Festival Nominees and Winners
2005 Festival Nominees and Winners
2004 Festival Nominees and Winners
Multi-Racial Perspectives on the Changing Face of Theatre
Careers and Degrees in Performing Arts
Accountability in Community Theater
2022 - 2023 DASH Nominees and Winners
2021-2022 DASH Nominees and Winners
2021-22 DASH Consultants' Choice Winners
2020-21 DASH Consultants' Choice Winners
2019 - 2020 DASH Outstanding Achievement
2018 - 2019 DASH Nominees and Winners
2017 - 2018 DASH Nominees and Winners
2016 - 2017 DASH Nominees and Winners
2015 - 2016 DASH Nominees and Winners
2014 - 2015 DASH Nominees and Winners
2013-2014 DASH Nominees and Winners
2012-2013 DASH Nominees and Awards
2011-2012 DASH Nominees and Awards
2010-2011 DASH Nominees and Awards
2009-2010 DASH Nominees and Awards
2008-2009 DASH Nominees and Awards
2007-2008 DASH Nominees and Awards
2006-2007 DASH Nominees and Awards
2005-2006 DASH Nominees and Awards
2004-2005 DASH Nominees and Awards
2003-2004 DASH Nominees and Awards
EMACT Festival Nominees and Winners
2014 Festival Nominees and Winners
2012 Festival Nominees and Winners
2010 Festival Nominees and Winners
2008 Festival Nominees and Winners
2007 Festival Nominees and Winners
2006 Festival Nominees and Winners
2005 Festival Nominees and Winners
2004 Festival Nominees and Winners
Multi-Racial Perspectives on the Changing Face of Theatre
Careers and Degrees in Performing Arts
EMACT Sexual Harassment policy package
EMACT, in partnership with an HR attorney, has created a harassment policy package that can be used by our member groups to define ethical standards of behavior and requirements. The document is totally customizable for groups.  The policy template contains the following:Various definitions of all types of harassmentExamples of harassment  Definition of Sexual harassmentQuid Pro quoHostile Work environmentRetaliation standardsComplaint Process (though we advise that you seek the advice of counsel)Roles and responsibilities Signature pageThe harassment investigation toolkit contains the following:Dealing With A Complaint FlowchartInvestigation Team DefinitionInvestigation Occurrence Tracking SheetInvestigation Questions for ComplainantInvestigation Questions for the AccusedInvestigation Questions for Third PartiesThe content of the documents should not be changed unless they are reviewed by an appropriate resource that understands federal and state laws. The logo of the theatre group and additional practices that a theatre group may impose to ensure the safety and security of actors and production teams may be added.  Click here to download the Sexual Harassment Policy TemplateClick here to download the Sexual Harassment Investigation ToolkitClick here to download the Anti-Harassment Policy Poster​Click here to view/download the 'Zero Tolerance' presentation from our September 2018 harassment training session with Deirdre Higgins
Copyright © 2023 Eastern Massachusetts Association of Community Theaters
Employer's responses to sexual harassment
Sexual harassment is a pressing national issue in both the public sphere and many workplaces. Recent high-profile allegations in the media, government, and prominent firms as well as the accompanying social movements (such as #TimesUp and #MeToo) have raised the visibility of sexual harassment, strongly suggesting that workplace sexual harassment has not been effectively addressed—or perhaps even taken seriously—by many employers.
In this report we examine employer responses and the outcomes of 46,210 Title VII sexual harassment discrimination charges filed between 2012 and 2016 with the U.S Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and state Fair Employment Practices Agencies (FEPAs). We also examine the EEOC’s processing of the 33,304 Title VII sexual harassment charges filed solely with the EEOC.
After a summary of our main findings, we present a short introduction to the definition of sexual harassment under the law. This is followed by our estimates on the frequency of sexual harassment in U.S. workplaces and the progressively narrow process through which they become complaints and receive redress through the legal system. We then describe the process through which a sexual harassment charge is filed, including a description of the content of these charges.
We go on to describe the gender and race of sexual harassment charging parties as well as the industry breakdown of charges. This is followed by analyses of employer responses to sexual harassment allegations as well as EEOC processing of these complaints. Our final analysis examines the distribution of benefits to the charging party from sexual harassment complaints. We conclude with a recommendation that workplace sexual harassment needs to be managed by employers as a human resource problem, rather than as a legal threat.
While the EEOC initially tends to judge sexual harassment charges as more likely than other discrimination complaints to sustain a finding of legal cause, most individuals benefit little from EEOC case processing.27% of employees who file a sexual harassment charge with the EEOC and continue to pursue redress, receive any benefit
Sexual harassment at work is a form of employment discrimination that violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Title VII prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, and sex. The legal status of sexual harassment discrimination was unclear until 1986 when the U.S. Supreme Court endorsed the view that sexual harassment was sex discrimination under Title VII in Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson.
The legal standard for sexual harassment is generally higher than unwanted sexual behaviors. According to the EEOC, the government agency responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or employee, the law does not prohibit teasing, offhand comments, or “isolated incidents that are not very serious”.1
Unwanted sexual behavior becomes illegal when it meets at least one of two legal standards. Under the quid pro quo standard there must be an implicit or explicit threat of some job related loss if the employee does not submit to a sexual encounter. Under the hostile workplace environment standard, the sexual encounter must be repeated or severe enough to create an intimidating or hostile work environment or result in an adverse employment decision. The harasser can be the target’s supervisor, co-worker, or even a client or customer. Employers, however, are responsible for sexual harassment discrimination under the law.
In our analysis of all discrimination charges filed with the EEOC, including those submitted to the EEOC from state Fair Employment Practice Agencies, between 2012 and 2016 we find that 12% of all Title VII discrimination charges contained a sexual harassment allegation. Sexual harassment allegations are more common than all other discrimination issues, with the exception of firing, workplace terms and conditions, discipline, and non-sexual harassment.2
Estimating a workplace sexual harassment rate is difficult. The experience of harassment varies as a function of age, the invasiveness of the encounter, and the legal and bodily rights consciousness of the target. Self-reports of perceived workplace sexual harassment during the last year from the U.S. General Social Survey (GSS) suggest that each year approximately 5% of employed women and 2% of employed men experienced unwanted sexual behavior that they perceived as sexual harassment at work.3  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission estimates that cumulatively across their careers up to 85% of women will be sexually harassed one or more times. Importantly, the EEOC also estimates that three out of four individuals who experience sexual harassment in the workplace never tell a supervisor, manager, or union representative about the incident.4 The experience of sexual harassment at work is widespread and compounds across the career for both men and women.
While many people experience sexual harassment at some time, relatively few report those experiences to the EEOC.5 Using the General Social Survey percentages multiplied by the U.S. workforce, we estimate that there are 5,117,835 people who believe they have experienced sexual harassment every year. In the charge records, we calculate that 9,242 charges of sexual harassment were filed with the EEOC or local FEPA on average each year from 2012-2016.
Sexual harassment complaints represent only 0.18% of those who we estimate experienced sexual harassment at work.6 Since the legal standards are high, it is not surprising that only a very few file a charge. Not filing a charge may also make economic and social sense. As we report below, there are often severe negative consequences to filing a charge, and most people who do file a charge receive no benefits.
The process of filing a sexual harassment charge is illustrated in Figure 1 as a dispute pyramid.7 The stages in the pyramid reflect what Felstiner et al. (1980) have called the “naming, blaming, and claiming” process in which injurious experiences are transformed into formal grievances.8 The base of the pyramid represents the estimated 5.1 million workers who experience a workplace incident they perceived as sexual harassment. Of those who perceive their experience as sexual harassment (“naming”), somewhere between 25% and 40% of them, or 1.2-2.0 million employees, will report internally to a supervisor, union or human resource department (“blaming”).9 As noted above, an even smaller subset of about 9,200 people are in the EEOC and FEPA charge database, having moved forward with filing an official charge (“claiming”). This figure grows smaller either because the issue is resolved internally or the complainant chooses not to move forward with the case for other reasons such as fear, lack of resources or understanding of the law, or time to file a charge. In other words, 99.8% of people who experience sexual harassment at work never file a sexual harassment charge. Even among the subset of people who seek redress in the workplace upward of 99% never file a formal sexual harassment charge outside the workplace.
Most (8,147 on average per year) sexual harassment charges are judged by the EEOC to potentially be legally actionable when they are first filed, suggesting that the vast majority of sexual harassment discrimination charges are on their face credible and meet a set of procedural criteria including recency of the event. Frivolous charges are likely to be vanishingly rare. Despite this, only 1,797 charging parties per year receive any benefit through the EEOC’s processes of mediation and conciliation brokered by the EEOC between the employee and their employer. After formally filing a charge, a small proportion of charges divert from the EEOC and into the courts. Although we do not have a precise estimate, we believe that the numbers are similarly small for the civil court system.
While the conversion of sexual harassment experiences into workplace complaints or legal claims is complex, our estimates are clear that the majority of people who experience sexual harassment do not register complaints with their employers, and very few file formal charges. Past research suggests that the individuals who file charges first lodged complaints to their employers but did not get an adequate response or were punished for doing so.10
That same research suggests that most people who file discrimination complaints are not primarily seeking monetary damages, but often want their job back, the perpetrator punished, or to improve working conditions in their workplace for themselves and coworkers. Furthermore, past research has found that targets of sexual harassment typically attempt to remedy the situation on their own by ignoring it or confronting the harasser before reporting the harassment to a supervisor or to human resources. Overall, prior research suggests that targets of sexual harassment are not “trouble makers”, but simply trying to do their job.11 Research has also found that people choose not to file sexual harassment complaints at work because they do not trust the process, do not expect it to be confidential, and/or expect retaliation.12
Formal charges of sexual harassment discrimination roughly represent the population of complaints where the charging party felt aggrieved, understood that they had rights under the law, felt safe enough to pursue a formal charge, believed that the severity of the encounters might rise to the high legal standards required to sustain a legal finding, and who had the resources to file a complaint.13 The problem of sexual harassment is obviously much larger than the incidence of legal charges. In fact, it is striking how rare sexual harassment charges are relative to the experience of unwanted workplace sexual encounters.
A basis is the legally protected category that the plaintiff claims was the basis of discrimination. Under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and its extensions these protected categories include race, sex, color, religion, disability, age, and national origin. Sexual harassment claims will almost always include a sex basis. Additionally, the law prohibits retaliation against individuals who file a discrimination claim by protecting an employee’s right to oppose unlawful discrimination, so retaliation is considered another basis.
Figure 2 shows an example of a common sexual harassment discrimination charge. It includes two bases, gender and retaliation, and three issues: sexual harassment, firing, and discipline. For the charges filed in calendar years 2012-2016, we find that sexual harassment charges are nearly always on the basis of sex (97%).15 Sixty-eight percent of the time sexual harassment charges were linked to employer retaliation after the internal or external complaints of sexual harassment.16 Race/color discrimination was the next most frequent joint basis for a sexual harassment discrimination charge (12%).
Only 11% of sexual harassment charges were filed exclusively as sexual harassment complaints (i.e. contained sexual harassment as the only issue). The most frequent co-occurring issues were discriminatory job loss (64%), general harassment (28%), and terms and conditions of work (26%).17 Compared to all other Title VII charges that do not contain a sexual harassment allegation, sexual harassment charges are more likely to allege constructive discharge and intimidation (see Table 1). Constructive discharge refers to employer retaliation or sexual harassment severe enough to lead a reasonable employee to quit their job. Sexual harassment is infrequently associated with other discrimination complaints, such as discrimination in hiring, promotion, and pay discrimination.
After the charge is filed, the EEOC has several routes to resolving charges, any of which can lead to monetary or other benefits for the charging party. The EEOC offers charging parties and their employers a mediation process with a third party mediator to resolve a complaint before an investigation occurs.18 Charges are also sometimes settled during an investigation. After an investigation in which the EEOC finds reasonable cause to believe discrimination has occurred, the EEOC works to resolve a complaint through a conciliation process. If conciliation fails, either the charging party or the EEOC may file a lawsuit in court. Most charges are settled in the EEOC’s mediation or conciliation processes or are dropped. A charging party may drop out of the EEOC process and request a right to sue letter or the charge may be closed for administrative reasons such as failure to locate the charging party, lack of jurisdiction, or the charging party requests withdrawal of the charge.19. In our data, 20% of sexual harassment charges were closed for these administrative reasons.
The EEOC reports that in fiscal year 2010, conciliation was successful for 27% of all discrimination charges, and the rate of successful conciliation increased to 38% of charges in fiscal year 2014.20. Only a small number go to court, and only very rarely with the EEOC suing the employer. We do not know what this rate is specifically for sexual harassment charges, but in 2016 there were 91,503 discrimination charges filed with the EEOC and the EEOC took 114, about 0.1% of charges received, to court.
Charging parties can get a “right to sue” letter from the EEOC and bring a lawsuit to court via the private bar. One study estimates that 17% of charges of racial discrimination result in a lawsuit being filed by the charging party, but another estimates that less than 1% result in a lawsuit.22 If sexual harassment complaints are similar, these wildly divergent estimates suggest that between 90 and 1,571 sexual harassment lawsuits were actually filed in courts in an average year. Since we estimate that there are more than 5 million incidences per year, the clear conclusion is that the vast majority of workplace sexual harassment incidences never lead to an EEOC discrimination complaint and very few of these ever make it to court. This low rate of filing also suggests that the key responders to sexual harassment in workplaces are those who are harassed and their managers
Table 2 describes the demographics of charging parties for charges containing a sexual harassment allegation, all other non-sexual harassment charges alleging Title VII discrimination, and for the subset of sex-based discrimination complaints that do not include sexual harassment as an issue. Sex-based charges include those Title VII charges made on the basis of one’s sex, male or female, as well as charges based on one’s sexual orientation or gender identity.22
Women filed 57% of all other (non sexual harassment) Title VII complaints, 75% of sex-based Title VII complaints, and 81% of all sexual harassment allegations. Though women are much more likely to experience sexual harassment at work and file a formal charge, men experience this issue as well: 19% of sexual harassment charges were filed by men.
Based on the General Social Survey estimates reported above, among those who experience sexual harassment at work, women are more likely than men to eventually file a formal charge. Women are 72% (with a confidence interval of plus or minus 1%) of those reporting experiencing sexual harassment at work on a survey, but 81% of those filing charges. We do not know if this represents differences in the seriousness of the harassment, more effective employer redress of sexual harassment complaints from men, or higher male reluctance to report.
Relative to other Title VII discrimination charges, sexual harassment charges are much more common among white women, roughly equally common among white men (who file absolutely fewer discrimination complaints than other status groups), less common among black women, and much less frequent among black men.
Relative to their representation in the labor market overall, women report a disproportionate amount of workplace sexual harassment. Although they comprise 47% of the labor force, women file 81% of sexual harassment charges. Black women, in particular, report a disproportionately large percentage of workplace sexual harassment charges; they account for 7% of the labor force but file 27% of sexual harassment charges.
About half of all case processing reports are missing information on the industry of the workplace. Thus it is difficult to make precise estimates of industry variation in charge rates. Past research suggests that sexual harassment is more common in workplaces with a hyper-masculine culture and where management tolerates abusive behavior in general.23 Given that the vast majority of sexual harassment experiences go unreported, we have no way of knowing if rates of reporting or the quality of managerial responses to internal complaints vary by industry. Given these limitations we have calculated rates by industry of sexual harassment reports to the EEOC and the state FEPAs. We calculate the rates by dividing the number of sexual harassment cases by the gender specific industry labor force.24 Figure 3 displays these results.
Figure 3 is sorted by the female sexual harassment charge rate. Sexual harassment charges filed by women are least common in government, health care and social assistance and finance. They are most common in mining, warehousing, and transportation. In general female sexual harassment charges are higher in male dominated industries (correlation = .77).  Male sexual harassment charge rates are lower than those filed by women in all industries. They are highest in educational services, followed by warehousing, accommodations and food service, and health care. Male charge rates are lowest in public administration, followed by wholesale trade, construction, and professional services. The rate of male sexual harassment charges is also associated with the sex composition of employment, with a weak tendency to be higher in industries with more women employees (correlation coefficient = .42).
Past research is clear that harassment, firing and retaliation are frequent employer responses to complaints of discrimination.25 Our analysis shows that sexual harassment is no exception to this pattern. Sixty-eight percent of sexual harassment allegations include a charge of employer retaliation in the face of a discrimination complaint. Almost two-thirds of those filing sexual harassment charges (64%) report losing their jobs as a result of their complaint.26 High instances of job loss and retaliation are present across race and sex categories (Table 3).
Most employer responses tend to be harsh both via retaliation and firing employees who complain. The very low proportion of employees who file sexual harassment complaints is very likely to be related to employers’ typically punitive responses. We do not know whether the retaliation occurred after the targeted employee reported the sexual harassment internally or after the charge was filed with the EEOC or FEPA. However, what is clear is that complaining about sexual harassment is quite dangerous, inciting employer retaliation and firing in most instances.
White men and White women are more like to lose their jobs than are other groups. Black women, in contrast, are less likely to lose their job, although most do. Clearly filing a sexual harassment discrimination charge is no protection against job loss, and probably increased the likelihood that the charging party will lose their job.
Employer retaliation is widespread, since two-thirds report it. It is highest for Black women, but almost as high for all groups. Retaliation for filing a charge of discrimination is explicitly prohibited by federal law, but is apparently normative in many workplaces.  This pattern of extreme retribution fits what we have learned from past research, which finds that employers, following the advice of internal and external legal counsel, react to internal discrimination complaints with aggressive attacks on those who complain. This tactic is designed to isolate the charging party and to send a message to other workers that the cost of pursuing legal remedies to discrimination will be prohibitively high.27
This section focuses on the processing of sexual harassment charges for the 33,304 Title VII sexual harassment charges filed directly with the EEOC.28 When a charge is filed with the EEOC it is given an initial processing code indicating the likelihood that the charge has sufficient evidence to support a legal finding of employment discrimination. A code of “A” by the EEOC intake staff indicates that the complaint is likely to be able to demonstrate legal cause that discrimination occurred, and those charges are more likely to be investigated by the EEOC.29.
The “B” code suggests legal cause may be present but additional information is needed, and they are more likely to be offered EEOC brokered mediation with the employer. The code “C” indicates that the intake staff judged that legal cause was unlikely, often because the filing deadline was missed or because the charge is not related to laws enforced by the EEOC.
In Table 4 we compare initial processing categories for Title VII sex-based charges by issue type for charges filed with the EEOC. Most discrimination charges of all types are initially assessed as either A or B. Overall, about one quarter (23%) are coded “A” and more than half (61%) of all sex-based Title VII charges are processed as type “B”. Category C charges are the smallest group of initial assessments (16%). Thus, most charges that make it to the EEOC are judged by intake staff to be potentially serious and to plausibly contain legal merit. This initial assessment of the potential merit of charges should not be surprising since very few discrimination experiences ever make it to the stage of filing formal discrimination charges.
Table 4 also compares all issues alleged in sex-based Title VII charges. Sexual harassment discrimination charges are the most likely of all sex-based Title VII charges to be processed as “A” (33%), followed closely by intimidation (32%). Both tend to have clear perpetrators and targets, making legal findings easier to establish.
EEOC initial processing tends to evaluate sexual harassment allegations as more likely to eventually demonstrate legal cause than other charges of Title VII or sex-based discrimination. While the EEOC initial charge processing assesses that the majority of all types of discrimination charges as potentially meritorious, combining A and B codes sexual harassment charges appear to present at least as much initial evidence of merit as other charges. There is no evidence here that the EEOC takes sexual harassment charges less seriously than other discrimination charges.
A charging party’s race and gender may also influence the likelihood that a charge is categorized as legally actionable. Among sexual harassment charges filed with the EEOC, those filed by white women are more likely to be processed as “A” when compared to both black women and all men. Thirty-five percent of sexual harassment charges filed by white women were processed as “A” compared to 31% of those filed by black women. Cases filed by men of all races are seen as less legally actionable in initial processing.
This section focuses on the outcomes of sexual harassment charges filed with either the EEOC or state/local FEPA. These outcomes reflect settlements in which the charging party did not withdraw their charge and thus proceeded through mediation, negotiation/settlement, or conciliation.
Table 6 shows the percent of charges that received any (monetary or nonmonetary) benefit by issue type. Among non-sexual harassment charges, between 14 and 21 percent of all Title VII charges and 17 to 24 percent of sex-based Title VII charges received a benefit.30 Twenty-seven percent of sexual harassment charges received some benefit, again the highest percent of all issues.
Most people who file discrimination charges, including discrimination charges that the EEOC judges initially to be legally actionable, do not receive any benefit. At the same time sexual harassment charges stand out as more likely than other discrimination issues to secure some benefit. About a quarter of people who file sexual harassment charges, and do not withdraw their charge, receive some benefit under this process.
A complainant’s race and gender are associated with the likelihood of a sexual harassment discrimination charge receiving a benefit. Sexual harassment charges filed by women, particularly White women, are more likely to receive a benefit compared to women of other races and to men. 29% of sexual harassment charges filed by White women received a benefit, compared to 23% of those filed by Black women, 21% by White men, and 18% by Black men (see Table 7).
The charges that proceed through mediation, conciliation, or (more rarely) court processes typically result in no compensation or a modest monetary compensation for the charging party. Very few cases lead to the changes at the workplace level that many charging parties seek (see Table 8). Almost 3 out of 4 (73%) sexual harassment charges produce no benefit of either kind for the charging party.
Twenty-three percent of sexual harassment charges produce some monetary benefit for the charging party, and 12% result in a workplace-level change of some sort. Nearly 9 out of 10 (88%) sexual harassment charges do not lead to any required change in employer behavior or managerial practices. Eight percent of sexual harassment charges lead to both a monetary benefit for the charging party and some negotiated change in workplace managerial practices.
High profile media cases often focus on large monetary settlements for the targets of sexual harassment. For example, FOX News paid former broadcaster Gretchen Carlson $20 million to settle her sexual harassment lawsuit against former FOX News CEO Roger Ailes. But outcomes for most sexual harassment charges are much smaller. Overall, charging parties who received monetary compensation for sexual harassment charges were awarded $24,700 on average. Large monetary benefits are very rare—only 1% of charges resulted in monetary compensation over $100,000 (Table 9).
Twenty-eight percent of those who filed a sexual harassment charge were represented by legal counsel. Those represented by legal counsel received higher compensation, $38,732 on average. This is about 50% higher than those not represented by legal counsel. However, lawyers typically get a third of any settlement, reducing the added monetary value of representation. There is both a small monetary benefit to securing legal counsel and a higher probability (35% vs 20%) of receiving a monetary settlement.
Overall, charging parties in sexual harassment complaints typically receive nothing or a modest monetary settlement and no change in their workplace. Those who lost their job are only very slightly more likely to receive a monetary benefit, an average of $24,700, which is unlikely to make up for the economic cost of the job loss. Even cases where the charging party experienced severe negative consequences like job loss, 73% of cases received no benefit.
Sexual harassment remains a persistent and serious threat to women and men in American workplaces. While the vast majority of those who experience sexual harassment in the workplace never report this harassment internally nor file a formal discrimination charge, those who do are typically confronted by harsh outcomes.
Our analyses of five years of sexual harassment charges filed with the EEOC and local FEPAs reveals that the majority of those who report sexual harassment experience retaliation (68%) and job loss (64%) while receiving little ($24,700 on average), or more often, no compensation. Although the EEOC initially processes most sexual harassment charges as potentially legally actionable (88%), only a minority of cases (27%) result in any benefit. While past research has found the majority of those who file a charge do so in hopes to initiate change in their workplace, we find that only 12% of charges result in any workplace policy change. Thus, those who pursued legal remedies may be left feeling that the benefits they hope to receive are not the outcomes they experience.31
The current case processing practices at the EEOC and state FEPAs do not appear to be serving all charging parties well. Most cases appear legally plausible, but most receive no benefits. The EEOC has long worked under a backlog of cases. The EEOC’s funding levels are simply insufficient to investigate and pursue all the discrimination cases they are presented with. At the same time the formal discrimination charge process probably generates substantial employment and revenue for defendant firm’s legal teams.
While the contemporary legal process of workplace sexual harassment appears to lead to suboptimal results, the current social movements around sexual harassment certainly can play a role in empowering targets, changing managerial responses, and even preventing future workplace sexual harassment. Current activism has helped call attention to the pervasiveness of
sexual harassment and initiated conversation regarding sexual harassment in many workplaces. If those conversations lead to changes in managerial practices promoting respectful treatment in workplaces and the empowerment of employees who experience sexual harassment, then they may help prevent sexual harassment and create safer, less abusive, workplaces.
Given current practices the legal route is unlikely to produce this outcome. Sexual harassment, and perhaps discrimination of all types, might be better addressed by managers treating them as managerial responsibilities, rather than effectively outsourcing them as legal problems.32 The EEOC has made precisely this recommendation in its recent report on harassment and has introduced training in managerial practices and the creation of respectful workplaces to educate employers as to how to reduce sexual and other forms of harassment at work.33  It is unclear how widespread or effective that training is, but it certainly seems a step in the right direction.
2. Harassment includes conduct such as offensive jokes, slurs, threats, mockery, and interference with work performance that creates a hostile work environment. If the harassment is sexual in nature, such as unwelcome sexual advances, request for sexual favors, or other verbal/physical harassment of a sexual nature, it is considered sexual harassment.
4. U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 2016. “Select Task Force on the Study of Harassment in the Workplace.” See EEOC report at https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/task_force/harassment/report.cfm5. In a small sample study of young women in Minnesota, 11% report being sexually harassed at work in the last year, only 3% of these women reported filing legal charges. McLaughlin, Heather, Christopher Uggen, and Amy Blackstone. 2017. “The Economic and Career Effects of Sexual Harassment on Working Women.” Gender & Society 31(3):333–358.6. This rate of filing charges is lower than a similar estimate that just under 1% of racial discrimination experiences lead to EEOC charges. See Rights on Trial: How Workplace Discrimination Law Perpetuates Inequality, by Ellen Berrey, Robert J. Nelson, and Laura Beth Nielsen, 2017, University of Chicago Press. Our estimate is considerably smaller than the 2-13% estimated by Cortina and Berdahl (2008). See “Sexual Harassment in Organizations: A Decade of Research in Review”, by Lilia Cortina and Jennifer Berdahl 2008, The Sage Handbook of Organizational Behavior.
13. Sexual harassment charges to the EEOC and FEPAs represent charges holding employers responsible. In some states it is also legally possible to hold individuals responsible, but the extent to which this happens is unknown at present. https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/task_force/harassment/katz.cfm#_ftnref34
14. Charges filed with either the EEOC or a FEPA are “dual filed”, so the EEOC database includes charges filed with a local FEPA, but the FEPA retains the charge for processing. In the course of this research we discovered that California and Massachusetts do not record and report all sexual harassment complaints to the EEOC. We supplement our estimates of the number of sexual harassment complaints from those two states with reported charges in yearly state level reports. Many of the charges filed with FEPAs and submitted to the EEOC  do not include data on the race, sex, or other demographic characteristics of the charging party. For more on FEPAs, see https://www.eeoc.gov/employees/fepa.cfm. It is for this reason we limit our analysis of charge outcomes to EEOC filed charges.
15. An example of a sexual harassment complaint not filed on the basis of sex would be an employee experiencing harassing comments regarding her/his religious beliefs regarding sex. In this case, the basis of the charge would be religion, while the issue is sexual harassment as the harassing comments were sexual in nature but based on the target’s religious attitudes towards sex.
23. For each industry we calculate the sex specific charge rate as the (number of charges filed by that sex/ number of employees of that sex in industry)*100,000. Industry labor force composition includes those all currently employed at work from the five-year American Community Survey public use file.
28. Cases seen as strategic priorities by the EEOC’s Enforcement Plan are also more likely to get processing category A. Such cases should also involve “an assessment that the strength and potential impact of the case supports the decision to proceed” https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/plan/nep.cfm.
29. Outcomes were analyzed only for allegations that were closed for reasons other than administrative closure, 77% of all Title VII charges were non-administrative closure charges, 75% of all sex-based Title VII charges, and 71% of sexual harassment charges were closed by December 31, 2016.
Enforcement guidance: vicarious employer liability for unlawful harassment by supervisors
This document addresses the standards of liability for harassment by supervisors based on based on sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or protected activity.
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.
The standard for employer liability for hostile work environment harassment depends typically on whether or not the harasser is the victim's supervisor. An employer is vicariously liable for a hostile work environment created by a supervisor. In Vance v. Ball State University, 133 S. Ct. 2434 (2013), the Supreme Court rejected in part the EEOC's definition of 'supervisor.' The Court held that an employee is a 'supervisor' if the employer has empowered that employee 'to take tangible employment actions against the victim, i.e., to effect a 'significant change in employment status, such as hiring, firing, failing to promote, reassignment with significantly different responsibilities, or a decision causing a significant change in benefits.'' The Court stated that an employer is liable for hostile work environment harassment by employees who are not supervisors if the employer was 'negligent in failing to prevent harassment from taking place.' In assessing such negligence, the Court explained, 'the nature and degree of authority wielded by the harasser is an important factor to be considered in determining whether the employer was negligent.' Also relevant is '[e]vidence that an employer did not monitor the workplace, failed to respond to complaints, failed to provide a system for registering complaints, or effectively discouraged complaints from being filed.'
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.
2. PURPOSE: This document provides guidance regarding employer liability for harassment by supervisors based on sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, or protected activity.
In Burlington Industries, Inc. v. Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. 2257 (1998), and Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, 118 S. Ct. 2275 (1998), the Supreme Court made clear that employers are subject to vicarious liability for unlawful harassment by supervisors. The standard of liability set forth in these decisions is premised on two principles: 1) an employer is responsible for the acts of its supervisors, and 2) employers should be encouraged to prevent harassment and employees should be encouraged to avoid or limit the harm from harassment. In order to accommodate these principles, the Court held that an employer is always liable for a supervisor’s harassment if it culminates in a tangible employment action. However, if it does not, the employer may be able to avoid liability or limit damages by establishing an affirmative defense that includes two necessary elements:
While the Faragher and Ellerth decisions addressed sexual harassment, the Court’s analysis drew upon standards set forth in cases involving harassment on other protected bases. Moreover, the Commission has always taken the position that the same basic standards apply to all types of prohibited harassment.1 Thus, the standard of liability set forth in the decisions applies to all forms of unlawful harassment. (See section II, below.)
Harassment remains a pervasive problem in American workplaces. The number of harassment charges filed with the EEOC and state fair employment practices agencies has risen significantly in recent years. For example, the number of sexual harassment charges has increased from 6,883 in fiscal year 1991 to 15,618 in fiscal year 1998. The number of racial harassment charges rose from 4,910 to 9,908 charges in the same time period.
While the anti-discrimination statutes seek to remedy discrimination, their primary purpose is to prevent violations. The Supreme Court, in Faragher and Ellerth, relied on Commission guidance which has long advised employers to take all necessary steps to prevent harassment.2 The new affirmative defense gives credit for such preventive efforts by an employer, thereby “implement[ing] clear statutory policy and complement[ing] the Government’s Title VII enforcement efforts.”3
The question of liability arises only after there is a determination that unlawful harassment occurred. Harassment does not violate federal law unless it involves discriminatory treatment on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age of 40 or older, disability, or protected activity under the anti-discrimination statutes. Furthermore, the anti-discrimination statutes are not a “general civility code.”4 Thus federal law does not prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or isolated incidents that are not “extremely serious.”5 Rather, the conduct must be “so objectively offensive as to alter the ‘conditions’ of the victim’s employment.”6 The conditions of employment are altered only if the harassment culminated in a tangible employment action or was sufficiently severe or pervasive to create a hostile work environment.7 Existing Commission guidance on the standards for determining whether challenged conduct rises to the level of unlawful harassment remains in effect.
This document supersedes previous Commission guidance on the issue of vicarious liability for harassment by supervisors.8 The Commission’s long-standing guidance on employer liability for harassment by co-workers remains in effect - - an employer is liable if it knew or should have known of the misconduct, unless it can show that it took immediate and appropriate corrective action.9 The standard is the same in the case of non-employees, but the employer’s control over such individuals’ misconduct is considered.10
The rule in Ellerth and Faragher regarding vicarious liability applies to harassment by supervisors based on race, color, sex (whether or not of a sexual nature11), religion, national origin, protected activity,12 age, or disability.13 Thus, employers should establish anti-harassment policies and complaint procedures covering all forms of unlawful harassment.14
An employer is subject to vicarious liability for unlawful harassment if the harassment was committed by “a supervisor with immediate (or successively higher) authority over the employee.”15 Thus, it is critical to determine whether the person who engaged in unlawful harassment had supervisory authority over the complainant.
The federal employment discrimination statutes do not contain or define the term “supervisor.”16 The statutes make employers liable for the discriminatory acts of their “agents,”17 and supervisors are agents of their employers. However, agency principles “may not be transferable in all their particulars” to the federal employment discrimination statutes.18 The determination of whether an individual has sufficient authority to qualify as a “supervisor” for purposes of vicarious liability cannot be resolved by a purely mechanical application of agency law.19 Rather, the purposes of the anti-discrimination statutes and the reasoning of the Supreme Court decisions on harassment must be considered.
The Supreme Court, in Faragher and Ellerth, reasoned that vicarious liability for supervisor harassment is appropriate because supervisors are aided in such misconduct by the authority that the employers delegated to them.20 Therefore, that authority must be of a sufficient magnitude so as to assist the harasser explicitly or implicitly in carrying out the harassment. The determination as to whether a harasser had such authority is based on his or her job function rather than job title (e.g., “team leader”) and must be based on the specific facts.
An individual qualifies as an employee’s “supervisor” if he or she is authorized to undertake tangible employment decisions affecting the employee. “Tangible employment decisions” are decisions that significantly change another employee’s employment status. (For a detailed explanation of what constitutes a tangible employment action, see subsection IV(B), below.) Such actions include, but are not limited to, hiring, firing, promoting, demoting, and reassigning the employee. As the Supreme Court stated,“[t]angible employment actions fall within the special province of the supervisor.”21
An individual whose job responsibilities include the authority to recommend tangible job decisions affecting an employee qualifies as his or her supervisor even if the individual does not have the final say. As the Supreme Court recognized in Ellerth, a tangible employment decision “may be subject to review by higher level supervisors.”22 As long as the individual’s recommendation is given substantial weight by the final decision maker(s), that individual meets the definition of supervisor.
An individual who is authorized to direct another employee’s day-to-day work activities qualifies as his or her supervisor even if that individual does not have the authority to undertake or recommend tangible job decisions. Such an individual’s ability to commit harassment is enhanced by his or her authority to increase the employee’s workload or assign undesirable tasks, and hence it is appropriate to consider such a person a “supervisor” when determining whether the employer is vicariously liable.
In Faragher, one of the harassers was authorized to hire, supervise, counsel, and discipline lifeguards, while the other harasser was responsible for making the lifeguards’ daily work assignments and supervising their work and fitness training.23 There was no question that the Court viewed them both as “supervisors,” even though one of them apparently lacked authority regarding tangible job decisions.24
An individual who is temporarily authorized to direct another employee’s daily work activities qualifies as his or her “supervisor” during that time period. Accordingly, the employer would be subject to vicarious liability if that individual commits unlawful harassment of a subordinate while serving as his or her supervisor.
On the other hand, someone who merely relays other officials’ instructions regarding work assignments and reports back to those officials does not have true supervisory authority. Furthermore, someone who directs only a limited number of tasks or assignments would not qualify as a “supervisor.” For example, an individual whose delegated authority is confined to coordinating a work project of limited scope is not a “supervisor.”
In some circumstances, an employer may be subject to vicarious liability for harassment by a supervisor who does not have actual authority over the employee. Such a result is appropriate if the employee reasonably believed that the harasser had such power.25 The employee might have such a belief because, for example, the chains of command are unclear. Alternatively, the employee might reasonably believe that a harasser with broad delegated powers has the ability to significantly influence employment decisions affecting him or her even if the harasser is outside the employee’s chain of command.
If the harasser had no actual supervisory power over the employee, and the employee did not reasonably believe that the harasser had such authority, then the standard of liability for co-worker harassment applies.
An employer is always liable for harassment by a supervisor on a prohibited basis that culminates in a tangible employment action. No affirmative defense is available in such cases.26 The Supreme Court recognized that this result is appropriate because an employer acts through its supervisors, and a supervisor’s undertaking of a tangible employment action constitutes an act of the employer.27
Any employment action qualifies as “tangible” if it results in a significant change in employment status. For example, significantly changing an individual’s duties in his or her existing job constitutes a tangible employment action regardless of whether the individual retains the same salary and benefits.32 Similarly, altering an individual’s duties in a way that blocks his or her opportunity for promotion or salary increases also constitutes a tangible employment action.33
On the other hand, an employment action does not reach the threshold of “tangible” if it results in only an insignificant change in the complainant’s employment status. For example, altering an individual’s job title does not qualify as a tangible employment action if there is no change in salary, benefits, duties, or prestige, and the only effect is a bruised ego.34 However, if there is a significant change in the status of the position because the new title is less prestigious and thereby effectively constitutes a demotion, a tangible employment action would be found.35
If a supervisor undertakes or recommends a tangible job action based on a subordinate’s response to unwelcome sexual demands, the employer is liable and cannot raise the affirmative defense. The result is the same whether the employee rejects the demands and is subjected to an adverse tangible employment action or submits to the demands and consequently obtains a tangible job benefit.36 Such harassment previously would have been characterized as “quid pro quo.” It would be a perverse result if the employer is foreclosed from raising the affirmative defense if its supervisor denies a tangible job benefit based on an employee’s rejection of unwelcome sexual demands, but can raise the defense if its supervisor grants a tangible job benefit based on submission to such demands. The Commission rejects such an analysis. In both those situations the supervisor undertakes a tangible employment action on a discriminatory basis. The Supreme Court stated that there must be a significant change in employment status; it did not require that the change be adverse in order to qualify as tangible.37
If a challenged employment action is not “tangible,” it may still be considered, along with other evidence, as part of a hostile environment claim that is subject to the affirmative defense. In Ellerth, the Court concluded that there was no tangible employment action because the supervisor never carried out his threats of job harm. Ellerth could still proceed with her claim of harassment, but the claim was properly “categorized as a hostile work environment claim which requires a showing of severe or pervasive conduct.” 118 S. Ct. at 2265.
When harassment culminates in a tangible employment action, the employer cannot raise the affirmative defense. This sort of claim is analyzed like any other case in which a challenged employment action is alleged to be discriminatory. If the employer produces evidence of a non-discriminatory explanation for the tangible employment action, a determination must be made whether that explanation is a pretext designed to hide a discriminatory motive.
For example, if an employee alleged that she was demoted because she refused her supervisor’s sexual advances, a determination would have to be made whether the demotion was because of her response to the advances, and hence because of her sex. Similarly, if an employee alleges that he was discharged after being subjected to severe or pervasive harassment by his supervisor based on his national origin, a determination would have to be made whether the discharge was because of the employee’s national origin.
A strong inference of discrimination will arise whenever a harassing supervisor undertakes or has significant input into a tangible employment action affecting the victim,38 because it can be “assume[d] that the harasser...could not act as an objective, non-discriminatory decision maker with respect to the plaintiff.”39 However, if the employer produces evidence of a non-discriminatory reason for the action, the employee will have to prove that the asserted reason was a pretext designed to hide the true discriminatory motive.
If it is determined that the tangible action was based on a discriminatory reason linked to the preceding harassment, relief could be sought for the entire pattern of misconduct culminating in the tangible employment action, and no affirmative defense is available.40 However, the harassment preceding the tangible employment action must be severe or pervasive in order to be actionable.31 If the tangible employment action was based on a non-discriminatory motive, then the employer would have an opportunity to raise the affirmative defense to a claim based on the preceding harassment.42
When harassment by a supervisor creates an unlawful hostile environment but does not result in a tangible employment action, the employer can raise an affirmative defense to liability or damages, which it must prove by a preponderance of the evidence. The defense consists of two necessary elements:
If an employer can prove that it discharged its duty of reasonable care and that the employee could have avoided all of the harm but unreasonably failed to do so, the employer will avoid all liability for unlawful harassment.43 For example, if an employee was subjected to a pattern of disability-based harassment that created an unlawful hostile environment, but the employee unreasonably failed to complain to management before she suffered emotional harm and the employer exercised reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct the harassment, then the employer will avoid all liability.
If an employer cannot prove that it discharged its duty of reasonable care and that the employee unreasonably failed to avoid the harm, the employer will be liable. For example, if unlawful harassment by a supervisor occurred and the employer failed to exercise reasonable care to prevent it, the employer will be liable even if the employee unreasonably failed to complain to management or even if the employer took prompt and appropriate corrective action when it gained notice.44
In most circumstances, if employers and employees discharge their respective duties of reasonable care, unlawful harassment will be prevented and there will be no reason to consider questions of liability. An effective complaint procedure “encourages employees to report harassing conduct before it becomes severe or pervasive,”45 and if an employee promptly utilizes that procedure, the employer can usually stop the harassment before actionable harm occurs.46
In some circumstances, however, unlawful harassment will occur and harm will result despite the exercise of requisite legal care by the employer and employee. For example, if an employee’s supervisor directed frequent, egregious racial epithets at him that caused emotional harm virtually from the outset, and the employee promptly complained, corrective action by the employer could prevent further harm but might not correct the actionable harm that the employee already had suffered.47 Alternatively, if an employee complained about harassment before it became severe or pervasive, remedial measures undertaken by the employer might fail to stop the harassment before it reaches an actionable level, even if those measures are reasonably calculated to halt it. In these circumstances, the employer will be liable because the defense requires proof that it exercised reasonable legal care and that the employee unreasonably failed to avoid the harm. While a notice-based negligence standard would absolve the employer of liability, the standard set forth in Ellerth and Faragher does not. As the Court explained, vicarious liability sets a “more stringent standard” for the employer than the “minimum standard” of negligence theory.48
While this result may seem harsh to a law abiding employer, it is consistent with liability standards under the anti-discrimination statutes which generally make employers responsible for the discriminatory acts of their supervisors.49 If, for example, a supervisor rejects a candidate for promotion because of national origin-based bias, the employer will be liable regardless of whether the employee complained to higher management and regardless of whether higher management had any knowledge about the supervisor’s motivation.50 Harassment is the only type of discrimination carried out by a supervisor for which an employer can avoid liability, and that limitation must be construed narrowly. The employer will be shielded from liability for harassment by a supervisor only if it proves that it exercised reasonable care in preventing and correcting the harassment and that the employee unreasonably failed to avoid all of the harm. If both parties exercise reasonable care, the defense will fail.
establish the affirmative defense as a means to limit damages.51 The defense only limits damages where the employee reasonably could have avoided some but not all of the harm from the harassment. In the example above, in which the supervisor used frequent, egregious racial epithets, an unreasonable delay by the employee in complaining could limit damages but not eliminate liability entirely. This is because a reasonably prompt complaint would have reduced, but not eliminated, the actionable harm.52
The first prong of the affirmative defense requires a showing by the employer that it undertook reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct harassment. Such reasonable care generally requires an employer to establish, disseminate, and enforce an anti-harassment policy and complaint procedure and to take other reasonable steps to prevent and correct harassment. The steps described below are not mandatory requirements - - whether or not an employer can prove that it exercised reasonable care depends on the particular factual circumstances and, in some cases, the nature of the employer’s workforce. Small employers may be able to effectively prevent and correct harassment through informal means, while larger employers may have to institute more formal mechanisms.53
There are no “safe harbors” for employers based on the written content of policies and procedures. Even the best policy and complaint procedure will not alone satisfy the burden of proving reasonable care if, in the particular circumstances of a claim, the employer failed to implement its process effectively.54 If, for example, the employer has an adequate policy and complaint procedure and properly responded to an employee’s complaint of harassment, but management ignored previous complaints by other employees about the same harasser, then the employer has not exercised reasonable care in preventing the harassment.55 Similarly, if the employer has an adequate policy and complaint procedure but an official failed to carry out his or her responsibility to conduct an effective investigation of a harassment complaint, the employer has not discharged its duty to exercise reasonable care. Alternatively, lack of a formal policy and complaint procedure will not defeat the defense if the employer exercised sufficient care through other means.
It generally is necessary for employers to establish, publicize, and enforce anti-harassment policies and complaint procedures. As the Supreme Court stated, “Title VII is designed to encourage the creation of anti-harassment policies and effective grievance mechanisms.” Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2270. While the Court noted that this “is not necessary in every instance as a matter of law,”56 failure to do so will make it difficult for an employer to prove that it exercised reasonable care to prevent and correct harassment.57 (See section V(C)(3), below, for discussion of preventive and corrective measures by small businesses.)
An employer should provide every employee with a copy of the policy and complaint procedure, and redistribute it periodically. The policy and complaint procedure should be written in a way that will be understood by all employees in the employer’s workforce. Other measures to ensure effective dissemination of the policy and complaint procedure include posting them in central locations and incorporating them into employee handbooks. If feasible, the employer should provide training to all employees to ensure that they understand their rights and responsibilities.
An employer’s policy should make clear that it will not tolerate harassment based on sex (with or without sexual conduct), race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, and protected activity (i.e., opposition to prohibited discrimination or participation in the statutory complaint process). This prohibition should cover harassment by anyone in the workplace – supervisors, co-workers or non-employees.58 Management should convey the seriousness of the prohibition. One way to do that is for the mandate to “come from the top,” i.e., from upper management.
The policy should encourage employees to report harassment before it becomes severe or pervasive. While isolated incidents of harassment generally do not violate federal law, a pattern of such incidents may be unlawful. Therefore, to discharge its duty of preventive care, the employer must make clear to employees that it will stop harassment before it rises to the level of a violation of federal law.
An employer should make clear that it will not tolerate adverse treatment of employees because they report harassment or provide information related to such complaints. An anti-harassment policy and complaint procedure will not be effective without such an assurance.59
Management should undertake whatever measures are necessary to ensure that retaliation does not occur. For example, when management investigates a complaint of harassment, the official who interviews the parties and witnesses should remind these individuals about the prohibition against retaliation. Management also should scrutinize employment decisions affecting the complainant and witnesses during and after the investigation to ensure that such decisions are not based on retaliatory motives.
An employer’s harassment complaint procedure should be designed to encourage victims to come forward. To that end, it should clearly explain the process and ensure that there are no unreasonable obstacles to complaints. A complaint procedure should not be rigid, since that could defeat the goal of preventing and correcting harassment. When an employee complains to management about alleged harassment, the employer is obligated to investigate the allegation regardless of whether it conforms to a particular format or is made in writing.
The complaint procedure should provide accessible points of contact for the initial complaint.60 A complaint process is not effective if employees are always required to complain first to their supervisors about alleged harassment, since the supervisor may be a harasser.61 Moreover, reasonable care in preventing and correcting harassment requires an employer to instruct all supervisors to report complaints of harassment to appropriate officials.62
It is advisable for an employer to designate at least one official outside an employee’s chain of command to take complaints of harassment. For example, if the employer has an office of human resources, one or more officials in that office could be authorized to take complaints. Allowing an employee to bypass his or her chain of command provides additional assurance that the complaint will be handled in an impartial manner, since an employee who reports harassment by his or her supervisor may feel that officials within the chain of command will more readily believe the supervisor’s version of events.
It also is important for an employer’s anti-harassment policy and complaint procedure to contain information about the time frames for filing charges of unlawful harassment with the EEOC or state fair employment practice agencies and to explain that the deadline runs from the last date of unlawful harassment, not from the date that the complaint to the employer is resolved.63 While a prompt complaint process should make it feasible for an employee to delay deciding whether to file a charge until the complaint to the employer is resolved, he or she is not required to do so.64
An employer should make clear to employees that it will protect the confidentiality of harassment allegations to the extent possible. An employer cannot guarantee complete confidentiality, since it cannot conduct an effective investigation without revealing certain information to the alleged harasser and potential witnesses. However, information about the allegation of harassment should be shared only with those who need to know about it. Records relating to harassment complaints should be kept confidential on the same basis.65
A conflict between an employee’s desire for confidentiality and the employer’s duty to investigate may arise if an employee informs a supervisor about alleged harassment, but asks him or her to keep the matter confidential and take no action. Inaction by the supervisor in such circumstances could lead to employer liability. While it may seem reasonable to let the employee determine whether to pursue a complaint, the employer must discharge its duty to prevent and correct harassment.66 One mechanism to help avoid such conflicts would be for the employer to set up an informational phone line which employees can use to discuss questions or concerns about harassment on an anonymous basis.67
An employer should set up a mechanism for a prompt, thorough, and impartial investigation into alleged harassment. As soon as management learns about alleged harassment, it should determine whether a detailed fact-finding investigation is necessary. For example, if the alleged harasser does not deny the accusation, there would be no need to interview witnesses, and the employer could immediately determine appropriate corrective action.
If a fact-finding investigation is necessary, it should be launched immediately. The amount of time that it will take to complete the investigation will depend on the particular circumstances.68 If, for example, multiple individuals were allegedly harassed, then it will take longer to interview the parties and witnesses.
It may be necessary to undertake intermediate measures before completing the investigation to ensure that further harassment does not occur. Examples of such measures are making scheduling changes so as to avoid contact between the parties; transferring the alleged harasser; or placing the alleged harasser on non-disciplinary leave with pay pending the conclusion of the investigation. The complainant should not be involuntarily transferred or otherwise burdened, since such measures could constitute unlawful retaliation.
The employer should ensure that the individual who conducts the investigation will objectively gather and consider the relevant facts. The alleged harasser should not have supervisory authority over the individual who conducts the investigation and should not have any direct or indirect control over the investigation. Whoever conducts the investigation should be well-trained in the skills that are required for interviewing witnesses and evaluating credibility.
When detailed fact-finding is necessary, the investigator should interview the complainant, the alleged harasser, and third parties who could reasonably be expected to have relevant information. Information relating to the personal lives of the parties outside the workplace would be relevant only in unusual circumstances. When interviewing the parties and witnesses, the investigator should refrain from offering his or her opinion.
Who, what, when, where, and how: Who committed the alleged harassment? What exactly occurred or was said? When did it occur and is it still ongoing? Where did it occur? How often did it occur? How did it affect you?
Are there any persons who have relevant information? Was anyone present when the alleged harassment occurred? Did you tell anyone about it? Did anyone see you immediately after episodes of alleged harassment?
If there are conflicting versions of relevant events, the employer will have to weigh each party’s credibility. Credibility assessments can be critical in determining whether the alleged harassment in fact occurred. Factors to consider include:
Corroboration: Is there witness testimony (such as testimony by eye-witnesses, people who saw the person soon after the alleged incidents, or people who discussed the incidents with him or her at around the time that they occurred) or physical evidence (such as written documentation) that corroborates the party’s testimony?
None of the above factors are determinative as to credibility. For example, the fact that there are no eye-witnesses to the alleged harassment by no means necessarily defeats the complainant’s credibility, since harassment often occurs behind closed doors. Furthermore, the fact that the alleged harasser engaged in similar behavior in the past does not necessarily mean that he or she did so again.
Once all of the evidence is in, interviews are finalized, and credibility issues are resolved, management should make a determination as to whether harassment occurred. That determination could be made by the investigator, or by a management official who reviews the investigator’s report. The parties should be informed of the determination.
In some circumstances, it may be difficult for management to reach a determination because of direct contradictions between the parties and a lack of documentary or eye-witness corroboration. In such cases, a credibility assessment may form the basis for a determination, based on factors such as those set forth above.
An employer should make clear that it will undertake immediate and appropriate corrective action, including discipline, whenever it determines that harassment has occurred in violation of the employer’s policy. Management should inform both parties about these measures.69
Remedial measures should be designed to stop the harassment, correct its effects on the employee, and ensure that the harassment does not recur. These remedial measures need not be those that the employee requests or prefers, as long as they are effective.
In determining disciplinary measures, management should keep in mind that the employer could be found liable if the harassment does not stop. At the same time, management may have concerns that overly punitive measures may subject the employer to claims such as wrongful discharge, and may simply be inappropriate.
To balance the competing concerns, disciplinary measures should be proportional to the seriousness of the offense.70 If the harassment was minor, such as a small number of “off-color” remarks by an individual with no prior history of similar misconduct, then counseling and an oral warning might be all that is necessary. On the other hand, if the harassment was severe or persistent, then suspension or discharge may be appropriate.71
Remedial measures should not adversely affect the complainant. Thus, for example, if it is necessary to separate the parties, then the harasser should be transferred (unless the complainant prefers otherwise).72 Remedial responses that penalize the complainant could constitute unlawful retaliation and are not effective in correcting the harassment.73
Remedial measures also should correct the effects of the harassment. Such measures should be designed to put the employee in the position s/he would have been in had the misconduct not occurred.
An employer’s responsibility to exercise reasonable care to prevent and correct harassment is not limited to implementing an anti-harassment policy and complaint procedure. As the Supreme Court stated, “the employer has a greater opportunity to guard against misconduct by supervisors than by common workers; employers have greater opportunity and incentive to screen them, train them, and monitor their performance.” Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2291.
An employer’s duty to exercise due care includes instructing all of its supervisors and managers to address or report to appropriate officials complaints of harassment regardless of whether they are officially designated to take complaints75 and regardless of whether a complaint was framed in a way that conforms to the organization’s particular complaint procedures.76 For example, if an employee files an EEOC charge alleging unlawful harassment, the employer should launch an internal investigation even if the employee did not complain to management through its internal complaint process.
Furthermore, due care requires management to correct harassment regardless of whether an employee files an internal complaint, if the conduct is clearly unwelcome. For example, if there are areas in the workplace with graffiti containing racial or sexual epithets, management should eliminate the graffiti and not wait for an internal complaint.77
An employer should ensure that its supervisors and managers understand their responsibilities under the organization’s anti-harassment policy and complaint procedure. Periodic training of those individuals can help achieve that result. Such training should explain the types of conduct that violate the employer’s anti-harassment policy; the seriousness of the policy; the responsibilities of supervisors and managers when they learn of alleged harassment; and the prohibition against retaliation.
An employer should keep track of its supervisors’ and managers’ conduct to make sure that they carry out their responsibilities under the organization’s anti-harassment program.78 For example, an employer could include such compliance in formal evaluations.
Reasonable preventive measures include screening applicants for supervisory jobs to see if any have a record of engaging in harassment. If so, it may be necessary for the employer to reject a candidate on that basis or to take additional steps to prevent harassment by that individual.
Finally, it is advisable for an employer to keep records of all complaints of harassment. Without such records, the employer could be unaware of a pattern of harassment by the same individual. Such a pattern would be relevant to credibility assessments and disciplinary measures.79
It may not be necessary for an employer of a small workforce to implement the type of formal complaint process described above. If it puts into place an effective, informal mechanism to prevent and correct harassment, a small employer could still satisfy the first prong of the affirmative defense to a claim of harassment.80 As the Court recognized in Faragher, an employer of a small workforce might informally exercise sufficient care to prevent harassment.81
For example, such an employer’s failure to disseminate a written policy against harassment on protected bases would not undermine the affirmative defense if it effectively communicated the prohibition and an effective complaint procedure to all employees at staff meetings. An owner of a small business who regularly meets with all of his or her employees might tell them at monthly staff meetings that he or she will not tolerate harassment and that anyone who experiences harassment should bring it “straight to the top.”
If a complaint is made, the business, like any other employer, must conduct a prompt, thorough, and impartial investigation and undertake swift and appropriate corrective action where appropriate. The questions set forth in Section V(C)(1)(e)(i), above, can help guide the inquiry and the factors set forth in Section V(C)(1)(e)(ii) should be considered in evaluating the credibility of each of the parties.
The second prong of the affirmative defense requires a showing by the employer that the aggrieved employee “unreasonably failed to take advantage of any preventive or corrective opportunities provided by the employer or to avoid harm otherwise.” Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2293; Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2270.
This element of the defense arises from the general theory “that a victim has a duty ‘to use such means as are reasonable under the circumstances to avoid or minimize the damages’ that result from violations of the statute.” Faragher, 18 S. Ct. at 2292, quoting Ford Motor Co. v. EEOC, 458 U.S. 219, 231 n.15 (1982). Thus an employer who exercised reasonable care as described in subsection V(C), above, is not liable for unlawful harassment if the aggrieved employee could have avoided all of the actionable harm. If some but not all of the harm could have been avoided, then an award of damages will be mitigated accordingly.82
A complaint by an employee does not automatically defeat the employer’s affirmative defense. If, for example, the employee provided no information to support his or her allegation, gave untruthful information, or otherwise failed to cooperate in the investigation, the complaint would not qualify as an effort to avoid harm. Furthermore, if the employee unreasonably delayed complaining, and an earlier complaint could have reduced the harm, then the affirmative defense could operate to reduce damages.
Proof that the employee unreasonably failed to use any complaint procedure provided by the employer will normally satisfy the employer’s burden.83 However, it is important to emphasize that an employee who failed to complain does not carry a burden of proving the reasonableness of that decision. Rather, the burden lies with the employer to prove that the employee’s failure to complain was unreasonable.
A determination as to whether an employee unreasonably failed to complain or otherwise avoid harm depends on the particular circumstances and information available to the employee at that time.84 An employee should not necessarily be expected to complain to management immediately after the first or second incident of relatively minor harassment. Workplaces need not become battlegrounds where every minor, unwelcome remark based on race, sex, or another protected category triggers a complaint and investigation. An employee might reasonably ignore a small number of incidents, hoping that the harassment will stop without resort to the complaint process.85 The employee may directly say to the harasser that s/he wants the misconduct to stop, and then wait to see if that is effective in ending the harassment before complaining to management. If the harassment persists, however, then further delay in complaining might be found unreasonable.
There might be other reasonable explanations for an employee’s delay in complaining or entire failure to utilize the employer’s complaint process. For example, the employee might have had reason to believe that:86
To establish the second prong of the affirmative defense, the employer must prove that the belief or perception underlying the employee’s failure to complain was unreasonable.
An employer cannot establish that an employee unreasonably failed to use its complaint procedure if that employee reasonably feared retaliation. Surveys have shown that employees who are subjected to harassment frequently do not complain to management due to fear of retaliation.87 To assure employees that such a fear is unwarranted, the employer must clearly communicate and enforce a policy that no employee will be retaliated against for complaining of harassment.
An employee’s failure to use the employer’s complaint procedure would be reasonable if that failure was based on unnecessary obstacles to complaints. For example, if the process entailed undue expense by the employee,88 inaccessible points of contact for making complaints,89 or unnecessarily intimidating or burdensome requirements, failure to invoke it on such a basis would be reasonable.
An employee’s failure to participate in a mandatory mediation or other alternative dispute resolution process also does not does not constitute unreasonable failure to avoid harm. While an employee can be expected to cooperate in the employer’s investigation by providing relevant information, an employee can never be required to waive rights, either substantive or procedural, as an element of his or her exercise of reasonable care.90 Nor must an employee have to try to resolve the matter with the harasser as an element of exercising due care.
An employer cannot establish the second prong of the defense based on the employee’s failure to complain if that failure was based on a reasonable belief that the process was ineffective. For example, an employee would have a reasonable basis to believe that the complaint process is ineffective if the procedure required the employee to complain initially to the harassing supervisor. Such a reasonable basis also would be found if he or she was aware of instances in which co-workers’ complaints failed to stop harassment. One way to increase employees’ confidence in the efficacy of the complaint process would be for the employer to release general information to employees about corrective and disciplinary measures undertaken to stop harassment.91
Generally, an employer can prove the second prong of the affirmative defense if the employee unreasonably failed to utilize its complaint process. However, such proof will not establish the defense if the employee made other efforts to avoid harm.
For example, a prompt complaint by the employee to the EEOC or a state fair employment practices agency while the harassment is ongoing could qualify as such an effort. A union grievance could also qualify as an effort to avoid harm.92 Similarly, a staffing firm worker who is harassed at the client’s workplace might report the harassment either to the staffing firm or to the client, reasonably expecting that either would act to correct the problem.93 Thus the worker’s failure to complain to one of those entities would not bar him or her from subsequently bringing a claim against it.
With these and any other efforts to avoid harm, the timing of the complaint could affect liability or damages. If the employee could have avoided some of the harm by complaining earlier, then damages would be mitigated accordingly.
An employer is liable for unlawful harassment whenever the harasser is of a sufficiently high rank to fall “within that class . . . who may be treated as the organization’s proxy.” Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2284.94 In such circumstances, the official’s unlawful harassment is imputed automatically to the employer.95 Thus the employer cannot raise the affirmative defense, even if the harassment did not result in a tangible employment action.
The Supreme Court’s rulings in Ellerth and Faragher create an incentive for employers to implement and enforce strong policies prohibiting harassment and effective complaint procedures. The rulings also create an incentive for employees to alert management about harassment before it becomes severe and pervasive. If employers and employees undertake these steps, unlawful harassment can often be prevented, thereby effectuating an important goal of the anti-discrimination statutes.
1 See, e.g., 29 C.F.R. § 1604.11 n. 1 (“The principles involved here continue to apply to race, color, religion or national origin.”); EEOC Compliance Manual Section 615.11(a) (BNA 615:0025 (“Title VII law and agency principles will guide the determination of whether an employer is liable for age harassment by its supervisors, employees, or non-employees”).
2 See 1980 Guidelines at 29 C.F.R. § 1604.11(f) and Policy Guidance on Current Issues of Sexual Harassment, Section E, 8 FEP Manual 405:6699 (Mar. 19, 1990), quoted in Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2292.
5 Faragher, 118 S.Ct. at 2283. However, when isolated incidents that are not “extremely serious” come to the attention of management, appropriate corrective action should still be taken so that they do not escalate. See Section V(C)(1)(a), below.
7 Some previous Commission documents classified harassment as either “quid pro quo” or hostile environment. However, it is now more useful to distinguish between harassment that results in a tangible employment action and harassment that creates a hostile work environment, since that dichotomy determines whether the employer can raise the affirmative defense to vicarious liability. Guidance on the definition of “tangible employment action” appears in section IV(B), below.
10 The Commission will rescind Subsection 1604.11(c) of the 1980 Guidelines on Sexual Harassment, 29 CFR § 1604.11(c). In addition, the following Commission guidance is no longer in effect: Subsection D of the 1990 Policy Statement on Current Issues in Sexual Harassment(“Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors”), EEOC Compliance Manual (BNA) N:4050-58 (3/19/90); and EEOC Compliance Manual Section 615.3(c) (BNA) 6:15-0007 - 0008.
The remaining portions of the 1980 Guidelines, the 1990 Policy Statement, and Section 615 of the Compliance Manual remain in effect. Other Commission guidance on harassment also remains in effect, including the Enforcement Guidance on Harris v. Forklift Sys., Inc., EEOC Compliance Manual (BNA) N:4071 (3/8/94) and the Policy Guidance on Employer Liability for Sexual Favoritism, EEOC Compliance Manual (BNA) N:5051 (3/19/90).
11 Harassment that is targeted at an individual because of his or her sex violates Title VII even if it does not involve sexual comments or conduct. Thus, for example, frequent, derogatory remarks about women could constitute unlawful harassment even if the remarks are not sexual in nature. See 1990 Policy Guidance on Current Issues of Sexual Harassment, subsection C(4) (“sex-based harassment - that is, harassment not involving sexual activity or language - may also give rise to Title VII liability . . . if it is ‘sufficiently patterned or pervasive’ and directed at employees because of their sex”).
12 “Protected activity” means opposition to discrimination or participation in proceedings covered by the anti-discrimination statutes. Harassment based on protected activity can constitute unlawful retaliation. See EEOC Compliance Manual Section 8 (“Retaliation”) (BNA) 614:001 (May 20, 1998).
13 For cases applying Ellerth and Faragher to harassment on different bases, see Hafford v. Seidner, 167 F.3d 1074, 1080 (6th Cir. 1999) (religion and race); Breeding v. Arthur J. Gallagher and Co., 164 F.3d 1151, 1158 (8th Cir. 1999) (age); Allen v. Michigan Department of Corrections, 165 F.3d 405, 411 (6th Cir. 1999) (race) ; Richmond-Hopes v. City of Cleveland, No. 97-3595, 1998 WL 808222 at *9 (6th Cir. Nov. 16, 1998) (unpublished) (retaliation); Wright-Simmons v. City of Oklahoma City, 155 F.3d 1264, 1270 (10th Cir. 1998) (race); Gotfryd v. Book Covers, Inc., No. 97 C 7696, 1999 WL 20925 at *5 (N.D. Ill. Jan. 7, 1999) (national origin). See also Wallin v. Minnesota Department of Corrections, 153 F.3d 681, 687 (8th Cir. 1998) (assuming without deciding that ADA hostile environment claims are modeled after Title VII claims), cert. denied, 119 S. Ct. 1141 (1999).
14 The majority’s analysis in both Faragher and Ellerth drew upon the liability standards for harassment on other protected bases. It is therefore clear that the same standards apply. See Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2283 (in determining appropriate standard of liability for sexual harassment by supervisors, Court “drew upon cases recognizing liability for discriminatory harassment based on race and national origin”); Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2268 (Court imported concept of “tangible employment action” in race, age and national origin discrimination cases for resolution of vicarious liability in sexual harassment cases). See also cases cited in n.13, above.
16 Numerous statutes contain the word "supervisor," and some contain definitions of the term. See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. § 1813(r) (definition of "State bank supervisor" in legislation regarding Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation); 29 U.S.C. § 152(11) (definition of "supervisor" in National Labor Relations Act); 42 U.S.C.. § 8262(2) (definition of "facility energy supervisor" in Federal Energy Initiative legislation). The definitions vary depending on the purpose and structure of each statute. The definition of the word “supervisor” under other statutes does not control, and is not affected by, the meaning of that term under the employment discrimination statutes.
19 See Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2288 (analysis of vicarious liability “calls not for a mechanical application of indefinite and malleable factors set forth in the Restatement . . . but rather an inquiry into the reasons that would support a conclusion that harassing behavior ought to be held within the scope of a supervisor’s employment . . . ”) and at 2290 n.3 (agency concepts must be adapted to the practical objectives of the anti-discrimination statutes).
24 See Grozdanich v. Leisure Hills Health Center, 25 F. Supp.2d 953, 973 (D. Minn. 1998) (“it is evident that the Supreme Court views the term ‘supervisor’ as more expansive than as merely including those employees whose opinions are dispositive on hiring, firing, and promotion”; thus, “charge nurse” who had authority to control plaintiff’s daily activities and recommend discipline qualified as “supervisor” and therefore rendered employer vicariously liable under Title VII for his harassment of plaintiff, subject to affirmative defense).
25 See Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2268 (“If, in the unusual case, it is alleged there is a false impression that the actor was a supervisor, when he in fact was not, the victim’s mistaken conclusion must be a reasonable one.”); Llampallas v. Mini-Circuit Lab, Inc., 163 F.3d 1236, 1247 (11th Cir. 1998) (“Although the employer may argue that the employee had no actual authority to take the employment action against the plaintiff, apparent authority serves just as well to impute liability to the employer for the employee's action.”).
26 Of course, traditional principles of mitigation of damages apply in these cases, as well as all other employment discrimination cases. See generally Ford Motor Co. v. EEOC, 458 U.S. 219 (1982).
27 Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2269; Faragher, 118 S. Ct. 2284-85. See also Durham Life Insurance Co., v. Evans, 166 F.3d 139, 152 (3rd Cir. 1999) (“A supervisor can only take a tangible adverse employment action because of the authority delegated by the employer . . . and thus the employer is properly charged with the consequences of that delegation.”).
31 Other forms of formal discipline would qualify as well, such as suspension. Any disciplinary action undertaken as part of a program of progressive discipline is “tangible” because it brings the employee one step closer to discharge.
32 The Commission disagrees with the Fourth Circuit’s conclusion in Reinhold v. Commonwealth of Virginia, 151 F.3d 172 (4th Cir. 1998), that the plaintiff was not subjected to a tangible employment action where the harassing supervisor “dramatically increased her workload,” Reinhold, 947 F. Supp. 919, 923 (E.D Va. 1996), denied her the opportunity to attend a professional conference, required her to monitor and discipline a co-worker, and generally gave her undesirable assignments. The Fourth Circuit ruled that the plaintiff had not been subjected to a tangible employment action because she had not “experienced a change in her employment status akin to a demotion or a reassignment entailing significantly different job responsibilities.” 151 F.3d at 175. It is the Commission’s view that the Fourth Circuit misconstrued Faragher and Ellerth. While minor changes in work assignments would not rise to the level of tangible job harm, the actions of the supervisor in Reinhold were substantial enough to significantly alter the plaintiff’s employment status.
33 See Durham, 166 F.3d at 152-53 (assigning insurance salesperson heavy load of inactive policies, which had a severe negative impact on her earnings, and depriving her of her private office and secretary, were tangible employment actions); Bryson v. Chicago State University, 96 F.3d 912, 917 (7th Cir. 1996) (“Depriving someone of the building blocks for . . . a promotion . . . is just as serious as depriving her of the job itself.”).
34 See Flaherty v. Gas Research Institute, 31 F.3d 451, 457 (7th Cir. 1994) (change in reporting relationship requiring plaintiff to report to former subordinate, while maybe bruising plaintiff’s ego, did not affect his salary, benefits, and level of responsibility and therefore could not be challenged in ADEA claim), cited in Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2269.
35 See Crady v. Liberty Nat. Bank & Trust Co. of Ind., 993 F.2d 132, 136 (7th Cir. 1993) (“A materially adverse change might be indicated by a termination of employment, a demotion evidenced by a decrease in wage or salary, a less distinguished title, a material loss of benefits, significantly diminished material responsibilities, or other indices that might be unique to the particular situation.”), quoted in Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2268-69.
36 See Nichols v. Frank, 42 F.3d 503, 512-13 (9th Cir. 1994) (employer vicariously liable where its supervisor granted plaintiff’s leave requests based on her submission to sexual conduct), cited in Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2285.
37 See Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2268 and Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2284 (listed examples of tangible employment actions that included both positive and negative job decisions: hiring and firing; promotion and failure to promote).
38 The link could be established even if the harasser was not the ultimate decision maker. See, e.g., Shager v Upjohn Co., 913 F.2d 398, 405 (7th Cir. 1990) (noting that committee rather than the supervisor fired plaintiff, but employer was still liable because committee functioned as supervisor’s “cat’s paw”), cited in Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2269.
40 Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2270 (“[n]o affirmative defense is available . . . when the supervisor’s harassment culminates in a tangible employment action . . .”); Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2293 (same). See also Durham, 166 F.3d at 154 (“When harassment becomes adverse employment action, the employer loses the affirmative defense, even if it might have been available before.”); Lissau v. Southern Food Services, Inc., 159 F.3d 177, 184 (4th Cir. 1998) (the affirmative defense “is not available in a hostile work environment case when the supervisor takes a tangible employment action against the employee as part of the harassment”) (Michael, J., concurring).
41 Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2265. Even if the preceding acts were not severe or pervasive, they still may be relevant evidence in determining whether the tangible employment action was discriminatory.
42 See Lissau v. Southern Food Service, Inc., 159 F.3d at 182 (if plaintiff could not prove that her discharge resulted from her refusal to submit to her supervisor’s sexual harassment, then the defendant could advance the affirmative defense); Newton v. Caldwell Laboratories, 156 F.3d 880, 883 (8th Cir. 1998) (plaintiff failed to prove that her rejection of her supervisor’s sexual advances was the reason that her request for a transfer was denied and that she was discharged; her claim was therefore categorized as one of hostile environment harassment); Fierro v. Saks Fifth Avenue, 13 F. Supp.2d 481, 491 (S.D.N.Y. 1998) (plaintiff claimed that his discharge resulted from national origin harassment but court found that he was discharged because of embezzlement; thus, employer could raise affirmative defense as to the harassment preceding the discharge).
44 See, e.g., EEOC v. SBS Transit, Inc., No. 97-4164, 1998 WL 903833 at *1 (6th Cir. Dec. 18, 1998) (unpublished) (lower court erred when it reasoned that employer liability for sexual harassment is negated if the employer responds adequately and effectively once it has notice of the supervisor’s harassment; that standard conflicts with affirmative defense which requires proof that employer “took reasonable care to prevent and correct promptly any sexually harassing behavior and that the plaintiff employee unreasonably failed to take advantage of preventative or corrective opportunities provided by the employer”).
46 See Indest v. Freeman Decorating, Inc., 168 F.3d 795, 803 (5th Cir. 1999) (“when an employer satisfies the first element of the Supreme Court’s affirmative defense, it will likely forestall its own vicarious liability for a supervisor’s discriminatory conduct by nipping such behavior in the bud”) (Wiener, J., concurring in Indest, 164 F.3d 258 (5th Cir. 1999)). The Commission agrees with Judge Wiener’s concurrence in Indest that the court in that case dismissed the plaintiff’s claims on an erroneous basis. The plaintiff alleged that her supervisor made five crude sexual comments or gestures to her during a week-long convention. She reported the incidents to appropriate management officials who investigated the matter and meted out appropriate discipline. No further incidents of harassment occurred. The court noted that it was “difficult to conclude” that the conduct to which the plaintiff was briefly subjected created an unlawful hostile environment. Nevertheless, the court went on to consider liability. It stated that Ellerth and Faragher do not apply where the plaintiff quickly resorted to the employer’s grievance procedure and the employer took prompt remedial action. In such a case, according to the court, the employer’s quick response exempts it from liability. The Commission agrees with Judge Wiener that Ellerth and Faragher do control the analysis in such cases, and that an employee’s prompt complaint to management forecloses the employer from proving the affirmative defense. However, as Judge Wiener pointed out, an employer’s quick remedial action will often thwart the creation of an unlawful hostile environment, rendering any consideration of employer liability unnecessary.
47 See Greene v. Dalton, 164 F.3d 671, 674 (D.C. Cir. 1999) (in order for defendant to avoid all liability for sexual harassment leading to rape of plaintiff “it must show not merely that [the plaintiff] inexcusably delayed reporting the alleged rape . . . but that, as a matter of law, a reasonable person in [her] place would have come forward early enough to prevent [the] harassment from becoming ‘severe or pervasive’”).
49 Under this same principle, it is the Commission’s position that an employer is liable for punitive damages if its supervisor commits unlawful harassment or other discriminatory conduct with malice or with reckless indifference to the employee’s federally protected rights. (The Supreme Court will determine the standard for awarding punitive damages in Kolstad v. American Dental Association,119 S. Ct. 401 (1998) (granting certiorari).) The test for imposition of punitive damages is the mental state of the harasser, not of higher-level officials. This approach furthers the remedial and deterrent objectives of the anti-discrimination statutes, and is consistent with the vicarious liability standard set forth in Faragher and Ellerth.
50 Even if higher management proves that evidence it discovered after-the-fact would have justified the supervisor’s action, such evidence can only limit remedies, not eliminate liability. McKennon v. Nashville Banner Publishing Co., 513 U.S. 352, 360-62 (1995).
52 See Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2292 (“if damages could reasonably have been mitigated no award against a liable employer should reward a plaintiff for what her own efforts could have avoided”).
54 See Hurley v. Atlantic City Police Dept., No. 96-5634, 96-5633, 96-5661, 96-5738, 1999 WL 150301 (3d Cir. March 18, 1999) (“Ellerth and Faragher do not, as the defendants seem to assume, focus mechanically on the formal existence of a sexual harassment policy, allowing an absolute defense to a hostile work environment claim whenever the employer can point to an anti-harassment policy of some sort”; defendant failed to prove affirmative defense where it issued written policies without enforcing them, painted over offensive graffiti every few months only to see it go up again in minutes, and failed to investigate sexual harassment as it investigated and punished other forms of misconduct.).
55 See Dees v. Johnson Controls World Services, Inc., 168 F.3d 417, 422 (11th Cir. 1999) (employer can be held liable despite its immediate and appropriate corrective action in response to harassment complaint if it had knowledge of the harassment prior to the complaint and took no corrective action).
57 A union grievance and arbitration system does not fulfill this obligation. Decision making under such a system addresses the collective interests of bargaining unit members, while decision making under an internal harassment complaint process should focus on the individual complainant’s rights under the employer’s anti-harassment policy.
An arbitration, mediation, or other alternative dispute resolution process also does not fulfill the employer’s duty of due care. The employer cannot discharge its responsibility to investigate complaints of harassment and undertake corrective measures by providing employees with a dispute resolution process. For further discussion of the impact of such procedures on the affirmative defense, see Section V(D)(1)(b), below.
Finally, a federal agency’s formal, internal EEO complaint process does not, by itself, fulfill its obligation to exercise reasonable care. That process only addresses complaints of violations of the federal EEO laws, while the Court, in Ellerth, made clear that an employer should encourage employees “to report harassing conduct before it becomes severe or pervasive.” Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2270. Furthermore, the EEO process is designed to assess whether the agency is liable for unlawful discrimination and does not necessarily fulfill the agency’s obligation to undertake immediate and appropriate corrective action.
58 Although the affirmative defense does not apply in cases of harassment by co-workers or non-employees, an employer cannot claim lack of knowledge as a defense to such harassment if it did not make clear to employees that they can bring such misconduct to the attention of management and that such complaints will be addressed. See Perry v. Ethan Allen, 115 F.3d 143, 149 (2d Cir. 1997) (“When harassment is perpetrated by the plaintiff's coworkers, an employer will be liable if the plaintiff demonstrates that ‘the employer either provided no reasonable avenue for complaint or knew of the harassment but did nothing about it’”), cited in Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2289. Furthermore, an employer is liable for harassment by a co-worker or non-employer if management knew or should have known of the misconduct, unless the employer can show that it took immediate and appropriate corrective action. 29 C.F.R. § 1604.11(d). Therefore, the employer should have a mechanism for investigating such allegations and undertaking corrective action, where appropriate.
59 Surveys have shown that a common reason for failure to report harassment to management is fear of retaliation. See, e.g., Louise F. Fitzgerald & Suzanne Swan, “Why Didn’t She Just Report Him? The Psychological and Legal Implications of Women’s Responses to Sexual Harassment,” 51 Journal of Social Issues 117, 121-22 (1995) (citing studies). Surveys also have shown that a significant proportion of harassment victims are worse off after complaining. Id. at 123-24; see also Patricia A. Frazier, “Overview of Sexual Harassment From the Behavioral Science Perspective,” paper presented at the American Bar Association National Institute on Sexual Harassment at B-17 (1998) (reviewing studies that show frequency of retaliation after victims confront their harasser or filed formal complaints).
60 See Wilson v. Tulsa Junior College, 164 F.3d 534, 541 (10th Cir. 1998) (complaint process deficient where it permitted employees to bypass the harassing supervisor by complaining to director of personnel services, but the director was inaccessible due to hours of duty and location in separate facility).
61 Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2293 (in holding as matter of law that City did not exercise reasonable care to prevent the supervisors’ harassment, Court took note of fact that City’s policy “did not include any assurance that the harassing supervisors could be bypassed in registering complaints”); Meritor Savings Bank, FSB v. Vinson, 471 U.S. 57, 72 (1986).
62 See Wilson, 164 F.3d at 541 (complaint procedure deficient because it only required supervisors to report “formal” as opposed to “informal” complaints of harassment); Varner v. National Super Markets Inc., 94 F.3d 1209, 1213 (8th Cir. 1996), cert denied, 519 U.S. 1110 (1997) (complaint procedure is not effective if it does not require supervisor with knowledge of harassment to report the information to those in position to take appropriate action).
63 It is particularly important for federal agencies to explain the statute of limitations for filing formal EEO complaints, because the regulatory deadline is only 45 days and employees may otherwise assume they can wait whatever length of time it takes for management to complete its internal investigation.
64 If an employer actively misleads an employee into missing the deadline for filing a charge by dragging out its investigation and assuring the employee that the harassment will be rectified, then the employer would be “equitably stopped” from challenging the delay. See Currier v. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Inc., 159 F.3d 1363, 1368 (D.C. Cir. 1998) (“an employer’s affirmatively misleading statements that a grievance will be resolved in the employee’s favor can establish an equitable estoppel”); Miranda v. B & B Cash Grocery Store, Inc., 975 F.2d 1518, 1531 (11th Cir. 1992) (tolling is appropriate where plaintiff was led by defendant to believe that the discriminatory treatment would be rectified); Miller v. Beneficial Management Corp., 977 F.2d 834, 845 (3d Cir. 1992) (equitable tolling applies where employer’s own acts or omission has lulled the plaintiff into foregoing prompt attempt to vindicate his rights).
65 The sharing of records about a harassment complaint with prospective employers of the complainant could constitute unlawful retaliation. See Compliance Manual Section 8 (“Retaliation), subsection II D (2), (BNA) 614:0005 (5/20/98).
66 One court has suggested that it may be permissible to honor such a request, but that when the harassment is severe, an employer cannot just stand by, even if requested to do so. Torres v. Pisano, 116 F.3d 625 (2d Cir.), cert. denied, 118 S. Ct. 563(1997).
67 Employers may hesitate to set up such a phone line due to concern that it may create a duty to investigate anonymous complaints, even if based on mere rumor. To avoid any confusion as to whether an anonymous complaint through such a phone line triggers an investigation, the employer should make clear that the person who takes the calls is not a management official and can only answer questions and provide information. An investigation will proceed only if a complaint is made through the internal complaint process or if management otherwise learns about alleged harassment.
68 See, e.g., Van Zant v. KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, 80 F.3d 708, 715 (2d Cir. 1996) (employer’s response prompt where it began investigation on the day that complaint was made, conducted interviews within two days, and fired the harasser within ten days); Steiner v. Showboat Operating Co., 25 F.3d 1459, 1464 (9th Cir. 1994) (employer’s response to complaints inadequate despite eventual discharge of harasser where it did not seriously investigate or strongly reprimand supervisor until after plaintiff filed charge with state FEP agency), cert. denied, 513 U.S. 1082 (1995); Saxton v. AT&T, 10 F.3d 526, 535 (7th Cir 1993) (investigation prompt where it was begun one day after complaint and a detailed report was completed two weeks later); Nash v. Electrospace Systems, Inc. 9 F.3d 401, 404 (5th Cir. 1993) (prompt investigation completed within one week); Juarez v. Ameritech Mobile Communications, Inc., 957 F.2d 317, 319 (7th Cir. 1992) (adequate investigation completed within four days).
69 Management may be reluctant to release information about specific disciplinary measures that it undertakes against the harasser, due to concerns about potential defamation claims by the harasser. However, many courts have recognized that limited disclosures of such information are privileged. For cases addressing defenses to defamation claims arising out of alleged harassment, see Duffy v. Leading Edge Products, 44 F.3d 308, 311 (5th Cir. 1995) (qualified privilege applied to statements accusing plaintiff of harassment); Garziano v. E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., 818 F.2d 380 (5th Cir. 1987) (qualified privilege protects employer’s statements in bulletin to employees concerning dismissal of alleged harasser); Stockley v. AT&T, 687 F. Supp. 764 (F. Supp. 764 (E.D.N.Y. 1988) (statements made in course of investigation into sexual harassment charges protected by qualified privilege).
71 In some cases, accused harassers who were subjected to discipline and subsequently exonerated have claimed that the disciplinary action was discriminatory. No discrimination will be found if the employer had a good faith belief that such action was warranted and there is no evidence that it undertook less punitive measures against similarly situated employees outside his or her protected class who were accused of harassment. In such circumstances, the Commission will not find pretext based solely on an after-the-fact conclusion that the disciplinary action was inappropriate. See Waggoner v. City of Garland Tex., 987 F.2d 1160, 1165 (5th Cir. 1993) (where accused harasser claims that disciplinary action was discriminatory, “[t]he real issue is whether the employer reasonably believed the employee’s allegation [of harassment] and acted on it in good faith, or to the contrary, the employer did not actually believe the co-employee’s allegation but instead used it as a pretext for an otherwise discriminatory dismissal”).
72 See Steiner v. Showboat Operating Co., 25 F.3d 1459, 1464 (9th Cir. 1994) (employer remedial action for sexual harassment by supervisor inadequate where it twice changed plaintiff’s shift to get her away from supervisor rather than change his shift or work area), cert. denied, 513 U.S. 1082 (1995).
74 An oral warning or reprimand would be appropriate only if the misconduct was isolated and minor. If an employer relies on oral warnings or reprimands to correct harassment, it will have difficulty proving that it exercised reasonable care to prevent and correct such misconduct.
75 See Varner, 94 F.3d at 1213 (complaint procedure is not effective if it does not require supervisor with knowledge of harassment to report the information to those in position to take appropriate action), cert denied, 117 S. Ct. 946 (1997); accord Wilson v. Tulsa Junior College, 164 F.3d at 541.
77 See, e.g., Splunge v. Shoney’s, Inc., 97 F.3d 488, 490 (11th Cir. 1996) (where harassment of plaintiffs was so pervasive that higher management could be deemed to have constructive knowledge of it, employer was obligated to undertake corrective action even though plaintiffs did not register complaints); Fall v. Indiana Univ. Bd. of Trustees, 12 F. Supp.2d 870, 882 (N.D. Ind. 1998) (employer has constructive knowledge of harassment by supervisors where it “was so broad in scope and so permeated the workplace that it must have come to the attention of someone authorized to do something about it”).
78 In Faragher, the City lost the opportunity to establish the affirmative defense in part because “its officials made no attempt to keep track of the conduct of supervisors.” Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2293.
80 If the owner of the business commits unlawful harassment, then the business will automatically be found liable under the alter ego standard and no affirmative defense can be raised. See Section VI, below.
82 Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2292 (“If the victim could have avoided harm, no liability should be found against the employer who had taken reasonable care, and if damages could reasonably have been mitigated no award against a liable employer should reward a plaintiff for what her own efforts could have avoided.”).
83 Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2270; Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2293. See also Scrivner v. Socorro Independent School District, 169 F.3d 969, 971 (5th Cir., 1999) (employer established second prong of defense where harassment began during summer, plaintiff misled investigators inquiring into anonymous complaint by denying that harassment occurred, and plaintiff did not complain about the harassment until the following March).
85 See Corcoran v. Shoney’s Colonial, Inc., 24 F. Supp.2d 601, 606 (W.D. Va. 1998) (“Though unwanted sexual remarks have no place in the work environment, it is far from uncommon for those subjected to such remarks to ignore them when they are first made.”).
86 See Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2292 (defense established if plaintiff unreasonably failed to avail herself of “a proven, effective mechanism for reporting and resolving complaints of sexual harassment, available to the employee without undue risk or expense”). See also Restatement (Second) of Torts § 918, comment c (tort victim “is not barred from full recovery by the fact that it would have been reasonable for him to make expenditures or subject himself to pain or risk; it is only when he is unreasonable in refusing or failing to take action to prevent further loss that his damages are curtailed”).
88 See Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2292 (employee should not recover for harm that could have been avoided by utilizing a proven, effective complaint process that was available “without undue risk or expense”).
92 See Watts v. Kroger Company, 170 F.3d 505, 510 (5th Cir., 1999) (plaintiff made effort “to avoid harm otherwise” where she filed a union grievance and did not utilize the employer’s harassment complaint process; both the employer and union procedures were corrective mechanisms designed to avoid harm).
93 Both the staffing firm and the client may be legally responsible, under the anti-discrimination statutes, for undertaking corrective action. See Enforcement Guidance: Application of EEO Laws to Contingent Workers Placed by Temporary Employment Agencies and Other Staffing Firms, EEOC Compliance Manual (BNA) N:3317 (12/3/97).
94 See also Ellerth, 118 S. Ct. at 2267(under agency principles an employer is indirectly liable “where the agent’s high rank in the company makes him or her the employer’s alter ego”); Harrison v. Eddy Potash, Inc., 158 F.3d 1371, 1376 (10th Cir. 1998) (“the Supreme Court in Burlington acknowledged an employer can be held vicariously liable under Title VII if the harassing employee’s ‘high rank in the company makes him or her the employer’s alter ego’”).
96 The Court noted that the standards for employer liability were not at issue in the case of Harris v. Forklift Systems, 510 U.S. 17 (1993), because the harasser was the president of the company. Faragher, 118 S. Ct. at 2284.
97 An individual who has an ownership interest in an organization, receives compensation based on its profits, and participates in managing the organization would qualify as an “owner” or “partner.” Serapion v. Martinez, 119 F.3d 982, 990 (1st Cir. 1997), cert. denied, 118 S. Ct. 690 (1998).
Know your rights: Survivors of sexual harassment
HomeAboutAbout SCFHEmploymentPress ResourcesContactNews & InformationNewsPresentationsBrochuresSexual HarassmentReport: “It’s About the Voucher”Get HelpIntake FormGet InvolvedCooperating Attorney & Attorney Referral ServiceTestingNewsletter Sign UpVolunteer Sign UpMake a DonationContactIntake FormVolunteer Sign UpDonate
Select LanguageAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBulgarianCatalanChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEnglishEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekHaitian CreoleHebrewHindiHungarianIcelandicIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseKoreanLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseNorwegianPersianPolishPortugueseRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSpanishSwahiliSwedishThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddish
Sexual harassment includes any unwanted sexual advance, request for sexual favors, or other unwelcome verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. (link)  The U.S. Department for Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has noted, “harassment can be written, verbal, or other conduct, and does not require physical contact.” (link)
All persons have a right to be free of sexual harassment in the context of housing, which includes, among other things, living in their home, engaging in housing-related services, or attempting to secure housing. HUD has acknowledged that low-income women – often racial and ethnic minorities and persons with disability may be particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment in housing. (link)  Nevertheless, the sex, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation of the person being harassed does not preclude that person from the legal protections afforded by fair housing laws. For example, lesbian, gay, bisexual, heterosexual, transgender, cisgender, and gender non-conforming persons are all included under these laws.
The federal Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination in housing, both public and private, and housing-related transactions on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, and disability.  Courts have consistently recognized sexual harassment as a form of sex discrimination that violates the Fair Housing Act. (link)  In 1989, HUD created fair housing regulations, which include examples of discriminatory housing practices related to quid pro quo sexual harassment and hostile environment harassment. Specifically, these regulations identified the following as illegal conduct: (a) denying or limiting housing-related services or facilities because a person refused to provide sexual favors; and (b) interfering with persons in their enjoyment of a dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin of such persons, or of visitors or associates of such persons. (link)
HUD defined hostile environment harassment as that which “refers to unwelcome conduct that is sufficiently severe or pervasive as to interfere with: the availability, sale, rental, or use or enjoyment of a dwelling; the terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale or rental, or the provision of enjoyment of services of facilities in connection therewith; or the availability, terms or conditions of a residential real-estate related transaction.
In addition to federal protections, the Massachusetts fair housing law prohibits housing discrimination on the basis of gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, marital status, age, ancestry, genetic information, veteran or active military status, and source of income (e.g. a housing voucher, food stamps, and Section 8) Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 151B, § 4.
In Massachusetts, a tenant or co-tenant may terminate a rental agreement or tenancy and leave the premises if they notify the owner that a household member is (a) a victim of domestic violence, rape, sexual assault, or stalking as long as the notification is made within three months of the most recent act of domestic violence, rape, sexual assault or stalking; or (b) reasonably in fear of imminent serious physical harm from domestic violence, rape, sexual assault or stalking. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §§ 24(a-b). An owner of a home cannot refuse to enter into a rental agreement based on an applicant having terminated a rental agreement due to such domestic violence, rape, sexual assault or stalking. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §25. A housing subsidy provider also cannot deny assistance on this basis. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §25.
Upon request, a homeowner is required, in Massachusetts to allow the tenant (at the tenant’s expense) to change the locks of an individual dwelling unit where the tenant, co-tenant or household member lives if that person is under an imminent threat of domestic violence, rape, sexual assault, or stalking at the premises. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §26(b). A homeowner cannot refuse to enter into a rental agreement based on an applicant having requested a change of locks on this basis. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §25. A housing subsidy provider also cannot deny assistance on this basis. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §25. If a landlord prevents the tenant from changing the locks or otherwise fails to make a good faith effort to provide a new key to said tenant, co-tenant, or household member requesting the lock change, is liable for the greater of actual and consequential damages or three months’ rent. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 186 §26(g).
In Massachusetts, any person suffering from harassment may file a complaint requesting protection from such harassment. Mass Gen. Laws Ch. 258E § 3(a). A person can seek a harassment prevention order against any other person who has harassed, stalked, or sexually assaulted them, irrespective of the relationship between the two parties . The person seeking a harassment prevention order can request that the offender:
not abuse them by physical harm, attempt to physically harm, or place them in fear of imminent serious physical harm, and stop harassing (a) by any willful and malicious conduct aimed at them and intended to cause fear, intimidation, abuse, or damage to property; (b) by using force, threat, or duress to make them engage in sexual relations unwillingly; or (c) by committing against them any act that violates the Commonwealth’s laws on indecent assault and battery, rape, statutory rape, assault with intent to rape, enticing a child, criminal stalking, criminal harassment, or drugging for sexual intercourse;
pay monetary compensation for losses (e.g. loss of earnings, out-of-pocket losses for injuries sustained or property damaged, cost of replacement locks, medical expenses, cost for obtaining an unlisted phone number) suffered as a direct result of the harassment. Mass. Gen. Laws Ch. 258E, § 3(a).
Violating a harassment prevention order is a criminal offense punishable by 2.5 years imprisonment and a fine of as much as $5,000. In response to each violation of a harassment prevention order, courts in Massachusetts can order the offender to pay the person who requested the protection
monetary compensation (e.g. loss of earnings, out-of-pocket losses for injuries sustained or property damaged, cost of replace locks, medical expenses, cost for obtaining an unlisted phone number).
A restraining order can be granted for as long as one year as three years and can be extended for additional time as the court deems necessary to protect the plaintiff from harassment. Gen. Laws Ch. 258E, § 3(d).
In addition to the federal protections, the Rhode Island Fair Housing Practices Act (R.I. Gen. Laws § 34-37-4) also prohibits housing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, source of income (e.g. a housing voucher, food stamps, Section 8, child support, alimony) military status as a veteran with an honorable discharge or general administrative discharge, status as a servicemember in the armed forces, country of ancestral origin, age, whether a member of the household is, has been, or is threatened with domestic abuse, and whether a tenant or housing applicant has obtained, sought, or is seeking relief from any court in the form of a restraining order for protection from domestic abuse.
The Residential Landlord and Tenant Act in Rhode Island (R.I. Gen. Laws § 34-18) provides, among other things, the following, which may be implicated in circumstances surrounding sexual harassment:
If a landlord deliberately uses a rental agreement containing provisions known to be unlawful, the tenant may recover, in addition to actual damages, an amount up to three months’ rent and reasonable attorney’s fees. § 34-18-17(b).
If a provision in a rental agreement or settlement agreement is unconscionable (that is, of a degree so unreasonable or unfair) when made, the court may refuse to enforcement the agreement. § 34-18-13(a).
its purpose is not to (a) promote the convenience, safety, or welfare of tenants on the premises; (b) preserve the property from abusive use; or (c) make a fair distribution of services and facilities held out for tenants generally;
A landlord cannot abuse the right of access or use that right to harass the tenant. Unless impracticable or in the instance of an emergency, the landlord must give two days’ notice of intent to enter and may only enter at the dwelling at reasonable times. § 34-18-26(C).
If the landlord unlawful enters the dwelling, lawfully enters in an unreasonable manner, or makes repeated demands for otherwise lawful entry that has the effect of unreasonably harassing the tenant, the tenant may obtain relief to prevent the recurrence of the conduct or terminate the rental agreement. § 34-18-45(b).
A landlord must comply with the requirements of applicable building and housing codes affecting health and safety; make repairs and do “whatever is necessary to put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition,” and keep all common areas of the premises in a clean and safe condition; and maintain in good and safe working order and a condition all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and other facilities and appliances, supplied or required to be supplied by the landlord. § 34-18-22(a). A tenant may recover actual damages and receive injunctive relief for a landlord’s failure to comply. § 34-18-28.
If a landlord unlawfully removes a tenant from the premises or willfully (i.e. intentionally, knowingly and purposely without justifiable excuse) diminishes services to a tenant by interrupting an essential service, the tenant may recover possession of the dwelling or terminate the rental agreement. The tenant may also recover possession, terminate the rental agreement, and recover the greater of three months of rent or threefold the actual damages sustained. § 34-18-34.
A landlord may not retaliate by increasing rent, decreasing services, or by threatening eviction because a tenant availed themselves of any lawful rights or remedies. § 34-18- 46(a)(4). If a landlord engages in this sort of retaliation the tenant is entitled to recover possession, terminate the rental agreement, and recover the greater of three months of rent or threefold the actual damages sustained. § 34-18-46(b).
In Rhode Island, a person may petition the court for an order (e.g. a restraining order) that will protect and support that person (and/or that person’s minor child) from sexual exploitation or domestic abuse. (R.I. Gen. Laws § 15-15-3) Rhode Island law defines domestic abuse, in pertinent part, as attempting to cause or causing physical harm; placing another person in fear of imminent serious physical harm; causing another to engage involuntarily in sexual relations by force, threat of force, or duress; stalking; or cyberstalking. § 15-15-1. A person can seek a restraining order against present or former family members, parents, stepparents, or, if a minor, a person with whom that minor has been in a substantive dating relationship.
§ 15-15-3(i). If a court grants the order and the offender violates it, the  offender can be found in contempt of court, guilty of a misdemeanor, punished by a fine totaling as much as $1,000, and imprisoned for as long as one year for the initial violation. § 15-15-3(n)(1). Subsequent violations of offenses punishable as a misdemeanor involving domestic violence can, ultimately, be deemed a felony punishable for as many as 10 years in prison. § 15-15-3(n)(2); § 12-29-5. A restraining order can be granted for as many as three years and can be extended for additional time if necessary to protect against abuse. § 15-15-3(m)(2).
All persons are prohibited from engaging in sexual harassment. In the context of housing, this might refer to landlords, property owners, developers, management companies, condo associations, property managers, housing authorities, real estate agents, builders, brokers, lenders, contractors, or other employees or agents of a housing provider as well as fellow tenants or other neighbors.
In addition, a housing provider is liable under the Fair Housing Act for the discriminatory conduct of the provider’s agents as well as that of third parties (e.g. other tenants) if the housing provider knew or should have known of the discriminatory conduct, has the power to correct it, and failed to do so. (link)  The housing provider can be held liable in this capacity even when the provider’s failure to act or correct the conduct is not motivated by an intent to discriminate. (link)
*This list does not include every example of sexual harassment. If you believe you have been sexually harassed by a landlord, housing provider, or any employee, agent, or contractor of the housing provider, please contact SouthCoast Fair Housing today to learn more about your options and how the law may protect you.
Diary entries or notes made by the person who experienced the sexual harassment regarding: what happened; when and where it happened; any statements made; the names and position of the harasser; the names, addresses, and phone numbers of any witnesses or any other tenants who have also been harassed; and/or how the person experiencing the harassment felt when the event(s) transpired.
Recordings of conversations that have been lawfully obtained. In Rhode Island, you are not required to disclose that you are recording if you are a party to the conversation or at least one person is a party to the conversation consents to the recording after having full knowledge and notice that the conversation will be recorded. In Massachusetts, it is only legal to record audio if every person being recorded knows they are being recorded. To see the recording laws applicable for other states, visit https://www.mwl-law.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/RECORDING-CONVERSATIONS-CHART.pdf.
The “Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) 42 U.S.C. ch. 136, Subchapter III VAWA is a federal law that protects against domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. In some instances, particularly when the housing provider receives federal funding, VAWA operates in concert with the Fair Housing Act to offer additional protections. (link) Despite the name of the law, VAWA does not just protect one group of people; it protects men, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and gender-non-conforming persons as well as women.
If you believe you have experienced sexual harassment or other forms of harassment based on your identity in a protected class, please contact SouthCoast Fair Housing for additional information and assistance. You may also file a Complaint directly with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, or Rhode Island Commission for Human Rights or contact the U.S. Department of Justice’s Sexual Harassment in Housing Initiative.
For more information, to schedule a fair housing training, or to file a housing discrimination complaint, call (774) 473-9994 or (410) 285-2550, email info@southcoastfairhousing.org , or complete an online intake form (http://southcoastfairhousing.org/intake-form/) and a SouthCoast Fair Housing specialist will follow up with you.
The work that provided the basis for this publication was supported by funding under a grant (EOI190024) with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The substance and findings of the work are dedicated to the public. The author and publisher are solely responsible for the accuracy of the statements and interpretations contained in this publication.  Such interpretations do not necessarily reflect the views of the Federal Government.
Questions and answers for small employers on employer liability for harassment by supervisors
Questions & Answers for Small Employers on Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors | U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive
Questions & Answers for Small Employers on Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors
Questions & Answers for Small Employers on Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors
This technical assistance document was issued upon approval of the Chair of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Questions & Answers for Small Employers on Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors
Harassment, Race, Color, Sex, National Origin, Religion, Age, Disability, Genetic Information
This document provides information regarding Title VII legal standards for employer liability for harassment by supervisors, as well as practical guidance regarding the duty of employers to prevent and correct harassment and the duty of employees to avoid
Title VII, ADEA, ADA, Rehabilitation Act, 29 CFR Part 1601, 29 CFR Part 1604, 29 CFR Part 1605, 29 CFR Part 1606, 29 CFR Part 1625, 29 CFR Part 1630, 29 CFR Part 1635
Small Business, Employees, Employers, Applicants, HR Practitioners
The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act (Title VII) prohibits harassment of an employee based on race, color, sex, religion, or national origin. The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) prohibits harassment of employees who are 40 or older on the basis of age, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits harassment based on disability, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA) prohibits harassment of an employee based on genetic information. All of the anti-discrimination statutes enforced by the EEOC prohibit retaliation for complaining of discrimination or participating in complaint proceedings.
The Supreme Court issued two major decisions in June of 1998 that explained when employers will be held legally responsible for unlawful harassment by supervisors. The EEOC's Guidance on Employer Liability for Harassment by Supervisors examines those decisions and provides practical guidance regarding the duty of employers to prevent and correct harassment and the duty of employees to avoid harassment by using their employers' complaint procedures.
Harassment violates federal law if it involves discriminatory treatment based on race, color, sex (with or without sexual conduct), religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or because the employee opposed job discrimination or participated in an investigation or complaint proceeding under the EEO statutes. Federal law does not prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or isolated incidents that are not extremely serious. The conduct must be sufficiently frequent or severe to create a hostile work environment or result in a "tangible employment action," such as hiring, firing, promotion, or demotion.
3. When is an employer legally responsible for harassment by a supervisor?
An employer is always responsible for harassment by a supervisor that culminated in a tangible employment action. If the harassment did not lead to a tangible employment action, the employer is liable unless it proves that: 1) it exercised reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct any harassment; and 2) the employee unreasonably failed to complain to management or to avoid harm otherwise
4. Who qualifies as a "supervisor" for purposes of employer liability?
An individual qualifies as an employee's "supervisor" if the individual has the authority to recommend tangible employment decisions affecting the employee.
A "tangible employment action" means a significant change in employment status. Examples include hiring, firing, promotion, demotion, undesirable reassignment, a decision causing a significant change in benefits, compensation decisions, and work assignment.
6. How might harassment culminate in a tangible employment action?
This might occur if a supervisor fires or demotes a subordinate because she rejects his sexual demands, or promotes her because she submits to his sexual demands.
7. What should employers do to prevent and correct harassment?
Employers should establish, distribute to all employees, and enforce a policy prohibiting harassment and setting out a procedure for making complaints. In most cases, the policy and procedure should be in writing.
Small businesses may be able to discharge their responsibility to prevent and correct harassment through less formal means. For example, if a business is sufficiently small that the owner maintains regular contact with all employees, the owner can tell the employees at staff meetings that harassment is prohibited, that employees should report such conduct promptly, and that a complaint can be brought "straight to the top." If the business conducts a prompt, thorough, and impartial investigation of any complaint that arises and undertakes swift and appropriate corrective action, it will have fulfilled its responsibility to "effectively prevent and correct harassment."
An employer's anti-harassment policy should make clear that the employer will not tolerate harassment based on race, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, or genetic information, or harassment based on opposition to discrimination or participation in complaint proceedings. The policy should also state that the employer will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who complains of harassment or who participates in an investigation.
The employer should encourage employees to report harassment to management before it becomes severe or pervasive.
The employer should designate more than one individual to take complaints, and should ensure that these individuals are in accessible locations. The employer also should instruct all of its supervisors to report complaints of harassment to appropriate officials.
The employer should assure employees that it will protect the confidentiality of harassment complaints to the extent possible.
10. Is a complaint procedure adequate if employees are instructed to report harassment to their immediate supervisors?
No, because the supervisor may be the one committing harassment or may not be impartial. It is advisable for an employer to designate at least one official outside an employee's chain of command to take complaints, to assure that the complaint will be handled impartially.
11. How should an employer investigate a harassment complaint?
An employer should conduct a prompt, thorough, and impartial investigation. The alleged harasser should not have any direct or indirect control over the investigation.
The investigator should interview the employee who complained of harassment, the alleged harasser, and others who could reasonably be expected to have relevant information. The Guidance provides examples of specific questions that may be appropriate to ask.
Before completing the investigation, the employer should take steps to make sure that harassment does not continue. If the parties have to be separated, then the separation should not burden the employee who has complained of harassment. An involuntary transfer of the complainant could constitute unlawful retaliation. Other examples of interim measures are making scheduling changes to avoid contact between the parties or placing the alleged harasser on non-disciplinary leave with pay pending the conclusion of the investigation.
If an employer determines that harassment occurred, it should take immediate measures to stop the harassment and ensure that it does not recur. Disciplinary measures should be proportional to the seriousness of the offense. The employer also should correct the effects of the harassment by, for example, restoring leave taken because of the harassment and expunging negative evaluations in the employee's personnel file that arose from the harassment.
13. Are there other measures that employers should take to prevent and correct harassment?
An employer should correct harassment that is clearly unwelcome regardless of whether a complaint is filed. For example, if there is graffiti in the workplace containing racial or sexual epithets, management should not wait for a complaint before erasing it.
An employer should ensure that its supervisors and managers understand their responsibilities under the organization's anti-harassment policy and complaint procedures.
An employer should screen applicants for supervisory jobs to see if they have a history of engaging in harassment. If so, and the employer hires such a candidate, it must take steps to monitor actions taken by that individual in order to prevent harassment.
An employer should keep records of harassment complaints and check those records when a complaint of harassment is made to reveal any patterns of harassment by the same individuals.
14. Does an employee who is harassed by his or her supervisor have any responsibilities?
Yes. The employee must take reasonable steps to avoid harm from the harassment. Usually, the employee will exercise this responsibility by using the employer's complaint procedure.
15. Is an employer legally responsible for its supervisor's harassment if the employee failed to use the employer's complaint procedure?
No, unless the harassment resulted in a tangible employment action or unless it was reasonable for the employee not to complain to management. An employee's failure to complain would be reasonable, for example, if he or she had a legitimate fear of retaliation. The employer must prove that the employee acted unreasonably.
16. If an employee complains to management about harassment, should he or she wait for management to complete the investigation before filing a charge with EEOC?
It may make sense to wait to see if management corrects the harassment before filing a charge. However, if management does not act promptly to investigate the complaint and undertake corrective action, then it may be appropriate to file a charge. The deadline for filing an EEOC charge is either 180 or 300 days after the last date of alleged harassment, depending on the state in which the allegation arises. This deadline is not extended because of an employer's internal investigation of the complaint.
Further guidance on harassment can be found in the 1999 Guidance on Employer Liability for Unlawful Harassment by Supervisors; the 1980 Guidelines on Sexual Harassment; the 1990 Policy Statement on Current Issues in Sexual Harassment; the 1990 Policy Statement on Sexual Favoritism; and the 1994 Enforcement Guidance on Harris v. Forklift Sys., Inc.. These can all be found on EEOC's web site https://www.eeoc.gov. They are also available by calling the EEOC's Publications Distribution Center (800-669-3362 or TTY 800-800-3302), or send inquiries to:
Questions and answers on the Title IX regulations on sexual harassment
Questions and Answers on the 
Title IX Regulations on Sexual 
Harassment (July 2021)  
(Updated June 28,2022)
UNITED ST ATES      
DEPARTMENT OF 
EDUCATION
 Office for Civil Rights
July 20, 2021  (Updated      
June 28, 2022 )Questions and Answers on the Title IX Reg ulations on 
Sexual Harassment and Appendix (July 2021) (Updated 
June 28, 2022) Notice of Language Assistance 
Notice of Language Assistance: If you have difficulty understanding English, you may, free of charge, 
request language assistance services for this Department information by calling 1-800- USA- LEARN  (1-
800-872-5327) (TTY: 1 -800-877-8339), or email us at: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov .
Aviso a pers
onas con dominio limitado del idioma inglés: Si usted tiene alguna dificultad en entender 
el idioma inglés, puede, sin costo alguno, solicitar asistencia lingüística con respecto a esta información 
llamando al 1 -800- USA- LEARN (1 -800-872-5327) (TTY: 1-800-877-8339), o  envíe  un mensaje  de 
correo  electr ónico a: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov . 
給英語能力有限人士的通知 : 如果您不懂英語， 或者使用英 语有困难，您可以要求獲得向大眾提
供的語言協助服務，幫助您理解教育部資訊。這些語言協助服務均可免費提供。如果您需要有關
口譯或筆譯服務的詳細資訊，請致電 1-800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-872-5327) 
(聽語障人士專線：1- 800-877-8339),或電郵: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov 。
Thông báo dành c
ho những người có khả năng Anh ng ữ hạn chế : Nếu quý v ị gặp khó khăn trong vi ệc 
hiểu Anh ngữ  thì quý v ị có thể  yêu c ầu các d ịch vụ hỗ tr ợ ngôn ngữ  cho các tin t ức của Bộ dành cho công 
chúng. Các dị ch vụ hỗ tr ợ ngôn ngữ  này đề u miễn phí. N ếu quý v ị muốn bi ết thêm chi ti ết về các d ịch vụ 
phiên dị ch hay thông dị ch, xin vui lòng gọ i số 1-800- USA- LEARN  (1-800-872-5327) (TTY:  1-800-877-
8339), ho ặc email: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov . 
영어 미숙자를  위한 공고: 영어를 이해하는 데 어려
움이 있으신 경우 , 교육부  정보 센터에  일반인  
대상 언어 지원 서비스를  요청하실  수 있습니다. 이러한  언어 지원 서비스는 무료로  제공됩니다. 
통역이나  번역 서비스에  대해 자세한  정보가  필요하신 경우, 전화번호  1-800- USA -LEARN  (1-
800-872-5327) 또는 청각 장애인용  전화번호 1-800-877-8339 또는
이메일주소 Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov  으로 연락하시기 바랍니다.
Paunawa sa 
mga Taong Limitado ang Kaalaman sa English: Kung nahihirapan kayong makaintindi 
ng English, maaari kayong humingi ng tulong ukol dito sa inpormasyon ng Kagawaran mula sa 
nagbibigay ng serbisyo na pagtulong kaugnay ng wika. Ang serbisyo na  pagtulong kaugnay ng wika ay 
libre. Kung kailangan ninyo ng dagdag na impormasyon tungkol sa mga serbisyo kaugnay ng 
pagpapaliwanag o pagsasalin, mangyari lamang tumawag sa 1 -800- USA- LEARN  (1-800-872-5327) 
(TTY:  1-800-877-8339), o mag- email  sa: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov . 
Уведомл
ение для лиц с ограниченным знанием английского языка:  Если вы  испытываете 
трудности в понимании английского языка, вы можете попросить, чтобы вам  предоставили 
перево д информации, которую Министерство Образования доводит до всеобщего сведения. Этот 
перевод предоставляется бесплатно. Если вы хотите получить  более подробную информацию об 
услугах устного и письменного перевода, звоните по телефону 1-800- USA- LEARN (1 -800-872-
5327) (служба для слабослышащих: 1-800-877- 8339), или  отправьте  сообщение по  адресу: 
Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov . i Table of Contents  
Please note:  
The Department of E ducation’s O ffice f or Civil R ights wi ll update the Q uestions a nd Answers  below 
as needed. 
June 28, 2022  
Questions 42, 51-54: Some aspects  of the answers to these questions a bout the postsecondary hearing 
requirements  in the 2020 amendments to the Title IX regulations have been r evised in light of the 
federal district court ruling in Victim R ights Law Center e t al. v. Cardona,  No. 1:20- cv-11104,  2021 WL 
3185743 (D.  Mass. July 28,  2021), appeals pending (1st Cir) . The court’s ruling vacate d a part of the 
regulatio n at 34 C .F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) , which prohibite d a decision-ma ker at a postsecondary s chool 
from considering statements not subject to cross-examination. Questions A thr ough D belo w were  also 
added to Section XII to provide postsecondary schools wi th additiona l updated information in light of 
the court' s decision. 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
I. General Obligations  .......................................................................................................... 3  
Question 1:  What did the 2020 amendments change about the Department’s Title IX regulations?  
 ............................................................................................................................. 3  
Question 2:  Is a school permitted to take steps in response to reports of sexual harassment that go 
beyond those set out in the 2020 amendments?  ................................................... 3  
Question 3:  What does the Department expect from schools regarding prevention of sexual 
harassment?   ............................................................................................................  4  
Question 4:  Are there any differences in the 2020 amendments’ requirements for elementary and secondary schools and postsecondary schools?  ..................................................... 4  
II. Definition of Sexual Harassment  ....................................................................................... 4  
Ques tion 5:  What is the definition of sexual harassment in the 2020 amendments?  ............. 4  
Question 6:  Do schools need to adopt a particular definition of consent for determining whether conduct is “unwelcome” under the definition of sexual harassment in the 2020 
amendments? ........................................................................................................ 6  
Question 7:  May a school respond to alleged sexual misconduct that does not meet the definition 
of sexual harassment in the 2020 amendments?  ................................................... 6  
Question 8:  How can a school determine whether sexual harassment “effectively denies a person’s 
right to equal access to its education program or activity” under the “unwelcome 
conduc t” category in the definition of sexual harassment in the 2020 amendments? (See 
the definition in Question 5.)  ...................................................................................  7  ii
 III. Where Sexu al Harassment Occurs  ..................................................................................... 8  
Question 9:  Which settings are covered by the 2020 amendments?  ...................................... 8  
Question 10 :  How should a school determine whether it has substantial control over the respondent 
and context in an off- campus setting?  ................................................................... 9  
Question 11:  How do the 2020 amendments apply to alleged sexual harassment that takes place 
electronically or on an online platform used by the school?  .................................. 9  
Question 12:  How do the 2020 amendments apply to alleged sexual harassment that is perpetrated 
by a student using a personal electronic device during class?  .............................. 10 
IV. When Harassment Occurred  ........................................................................................... 10 
Question 13:  What is the appropriate standard for evaluating alleged sexual harassment that 
occurred before the 2020 amendments took effect?  ........................................... 10 
V. Notice of Sexual Harassment  .......................................................................................... 10 
Question 14:  Which scho ol employees must be notified about allegations of sexual harassment for a 
school to be put on notice that it must respond?  ................................................ 10 
Question 15:  If a school trains or requires non- employees who interact with the school’s students to 
report sexual harassment incidents, are those individuals (for example, volunteers, 
alumni, independent contractors) automatically considered “officials with authority to 
institute corrective measures” on the school’s behalf?  ....................................... 11 
Question 16:  May a school accept reports of sexual harassment from individuals who are not 
associated with the school in any way?  ................................................................ 12 
Question 17 : Is a school required to respond to allegations of sexual harassment if the only 
employee or school official who has notice of the harassment is the alleged harasser?  
 ........................................................................................................................... 12 
Question 18:  Is a school required to respond if it has notice of alleged misconduct that could meet 
the definition of sexual harassment but is not certain whether the harassment has occurred?  ............................................................................................................. 12 
Question 19:  Does a postsecondary school have discretion to require additional employees to report 
allegations of sexual harassment to the school?  .................................................. 12 
VI. Response to Sexual Harassment  ...................................................................................... 13 
Question 20:  How must a school respond to allegations of sexual harassment?  ................... 13 
Question 21:  Is a school required to impose particular remedies when a respondent is found 
responsible for sexual harassment?  ..................................................................... 14 
VII. Formal Complaints  .......................................................................................................... 14 
Question 22:  What is a “formal complaint” under the 2020 amendments?  ........................... 14 iii
 Question 23:  Is a school required to accept a formal complaint of sexual harassment from a 
complainant who is not currently enrolled in or attending the school?  ............... 15 
Question 24:  If a complainant has not filed a formal complaint and is not participating in or 
attempting to participate in the school’s education program or activity, may the school’s 
Title IX Coordinator file a formal complaint?  ........................................................ 15 
Question 25:  If a complainant is not participating in or attempting to participate in the school’s 
education program or activity, may a school respond to reports of sexual harassment 
under its own code of conduct?  ........................................................................... 16 
Question 26:  Is a school required to take action even if the respondent has left the school prior to 
the filing of a formal complaint with no plans to return?  ..................................... 16 
Question 27:  Is a school required to dismiss a formal complaint if a respondent leaves the school?  
 ........................................................................................................................... 16 
Question 28:  May a school use trauma -informed approaches when responding to a formal 
complaint? ............................................................................................................ 17 
VIII. Handling Situations in Which a Party or Witness May be Unable to Participate in the Title IX
Grievance Process in Person  .................................................................................................. 17 
Question 29:  May a school stop offering its Title IX grievance process due to the COVID- 19 
pandemic? ................................................................................................................  17 
Question 30:  How should a school proceed in the Title IX sexual harassment grievance process when 
a party or a witness is temporarily unable to participate due to a disability?  ...... 17 
Question 31:  May a school use technology to p ermit participants to appear virtually in its Title IX 
grievance process?  ............................................................................................... 18 
IX. Supportive Measures and Temporary Removal of Respondents from Campus  ................ 18 
Question 32:  Does a school have to offer supportive measures to a complainant who has not filed a 
formal complaint of sexual harassment?  ............................................................. 18 
Question 33:  What are the supportive measures a school must offer to complainants?  ....... 18 
Question 34:  Is a school still required to provide supportive measures during the COVID- 19 
pandemic? ................................................................................................................  19 
Question 35:  May a school remove a respondent from campus while a Title IX grievance process is 
pending if the school determines that the respondent is a threat to others?  ...... 19 
X. Presumption of No Responsibility  ................................................................................... 19 
Question 36:  The 2020 amendments require schools to presume that the respondent is not 
responsible for the alleged misconduct. Does this mean the school also must assume the complainant is lying or that the alleged harassment did not occur?  .................... 19 
XI. Time Frames  ................................................................................................................... 20 iv
 Question 37:  What is the appropriate length of time for a school’s investigation into a complaint of 
sexual harassment?  .............................................................................................. 20 
XII. Live Hearings and Cross- Examination  .............................................................................. 21 
Question 38:  Are all schools required to hold live hearings as part of their Title IX grievance 
processes?  ............................................................................................................ 21 
Question 39:  What is cross -examin ation? ............................................................................... 21 
Question 40: Since elementary and secondary schools are not required to provide a live hearing, 
what kind of process are they required to provide?  ............................................. 22 
Question 41:  Is a postsecondary school required to provide complainants and respondents with an 
advisor for a live hearing?  .................................................................................... 22 
Q
uestion 42:  Are parties and witness es required to participate in the Title IX grievance process, 
including submitting to cross -examination during a live hearing at the postsecondary 
school level? ......................................................................................................... 23 
Question 43:  May a school create its own rules for conducting a live hearing?  ..................... 23 
Question 44:  May a school put in place rules of decorum or other rules for advisors, parties, and 
witnesses to follow during a live hearing?  ............................................................ 23 
Question 45:  Are all parties required to be physically present in the same location during the live 
hearing ? ...................................................................................................................  24 
Question 46:  Is a school permitted to limit the questions that may be asked by each party of the 
other party or witnesses?  ..................................................................................... 24 
Question 47:  Are questions and evidence about the complainant’s sexual history relevant?  25 
Question 48:  Can cross -examination include questions about an individual’s medical or mental -
health records?  ........................................................................................................  25 
Question 49:  May a school put measures in place to protect the well -being of the parties during the 
cross- examination?  .............................................................................................. 25 
Question 50:  How do the 2020 amendments address the manner in which a decision- maker should 
evaluate answers to cross -examination questions?  ............................................. 26 
Question 51:  Wha t are the consequences if a party or witness does not participate in a live hearing 
or submit to cross -examination? .......................................................................... 26 
Question 52:  May a decision -maker at a postsecondary school rely on non -statement evidence, such 
as photographs or video images, if a party or witness does not submit to cross -
examination?  ............................................................................................................  27 
Question 53:  May a decision -maker at a postsecondary school rely on statements of a party, such as 
texts or emails,  even if the party does not submit to cross -examination?  ........... 27 v Question 54:  May a decision -maker rely on a video, text message, or o ther piece of evidence that 
includes statements by multiple parties or witnesses if some of them do not submit to 
cross-e xamination? .................................................................................................  28 
Question A:  May a decision-maker at a postsecondary school consider statements made 
by a party or witness who does not submit to cross-e xamination at a live 
hearing? ................................................................................................................ 28 
Question B:  When did this court-ordered change in the regulation take effect? ......................  28 
Question C:  What types of statements made by a party or witness who does not submit to cross-   
examination at a live hearing may a decision-maker at a postsecondary school 
consider? .............................................................................................................. 29 
Question D: Despite the court’s decision, may a postsecondary school choose to maintain 
the prohibition on considering statements made by a party or witness who does not 
submit to cross-e xamination at a live hearing as part of its Title IX 
grievance  proce ss? .............................................................................................. 29 
Questi
on 55:  May a decision -maker rely on the statements of a party or witness who submits to 
cross- examination, but does not answer questions posed by the decision- maker? 29 
XIII. Standard of Proof  ............................................................................................................ 30 
Question 56:  What standard of proof must a school use when deciding whether a respondent is 
responsible for committing sexual harassment?  .................................................. 30 
Question 57:  May a school use a different standard of proof for formal complaints of sexual 
harassment involving students and employees?  .................................................. 30  
XIV. Informal Resolution  ........................................................................................................ 30 
Question 58:  May a school offer an informal resolution process, including restorative justice or 
mediation, as a way to resolve a sexual harassment complaint?  ......................... 30 
Question 59:  If a school chooses to offer an informal resolution process, are there any requirements 
under Title IX?  ...................................................................................................... 31 
XV. Retal iation and Amnesty  ................................................................................................. 31 
Question 60:  What is retaliation, and is it prohibited under the 2020 amendments?  ............ 31 
Question 61:  May a school discipline a complainant, respondent,  or witness for violating the school’s 
COVID -19 or other policy during a reported incident of sexual harassment?  ...... 32 
Question 62:  Is a school permitted to have an amnesty policy as a way to encourage reporting of 
sexual harassment?  .............................................................................................. 32 
Question 63:  May a school  punish a complainant for filing a complaint if the decision- maker finds 
that the respondent did not engage in the alleged sexual harassment?  .............. 32 v
i XVI. Forms of Sex Discrimination Other Than Sexual Harassment as Defined by the 2020
Amendments  ......................................................................................................................... 33 
Question 64:  H ow should a school respond to complaints alleging sex discrimination that do not 
include sexual harassment allegations?  ............................................................... 33 
Question 65:  What constitutes a prompt and equitable grievance procedure under Title IX for 
responding to complaints of sex discrimination that do not include sexual -harassment 
allegations? .......................................................................................................... 33 
XVII.  ............................................................................................................. Religious Exemptions  33
Q
uestion 66:  Are all schools that receive federal financial assistance required to comply with Title IX?  
 ........................................................................................................................... 34 
Question 67:  May a student file a complaint with OCR against a school that has obtained an 
assurance of a religious exemption from OCR?  .................................................... 34 v
ii June 28, 2022  
Please note: Thi s Appendix was upda ted to indicate language in example policies that should no longer 
be relied upon following the federal district court ruling  in Victim R ights Law C enter et al. v . Cardona,  
No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2 021 WL  3185743 (D.  Mass. July 28,  2021), appeals pending (1st C ir), which va cate d 
the language in 3 4 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) prohibiting  a de cision- make r at a postsecondary s chool from 
considering statements not subject to cross-examination. 
APPENDIX 
I. Recei
ving and Responding to Reports of Sexual Harassment  .......................................... 41 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 41 
Example Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  ................................................... 41 
II. Supportive Measures  ...................................................................................................... 42 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 42 
III. Investigations  .................................................................................................................. 43 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 43 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  ................................................ 43 
IV. The Role of the Advisor  ................................................................................................... 44 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 44 
V. The Live Hearing Process  ................................................................................................. 44 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 44 
VI. Behavior During the Live Hearing/Rules of Decorum ....................................................... 47 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 47 
VII. Protecting the Well -Being of the Parties During the Live Hearing/Investig ation .............. 48 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 48 
Example Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  ................................................... 48 
VIII. The Cross -Examination Process  ....................................................................................... 48 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 48 
IX. Restrictions on Considering a Complainant’s or Respondent’s Sexual History  ................. 49 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 49 
X. Situati ons in Which a Party or Witness Does Not Participate in a Live Hearing or in Cross -
examination  ........................................................................................................................... 50 v
iii Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  .................................................................... 50 
XI. Pr esumptions about Complainants, Respondents, and Witnesses ................................... 51 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 52 
XII. Determination Regarding Responsibility  ......................................................................... 52 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 52 
XIII. Sanctions and Remedies  ................................................................................................. 53 
Example Policies Used by  Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 53 
XIV. Appeals  ........................................................................................................................... 54 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 54 
XV. Informal Resolution  ........................................................................................................ 56 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  .... 56 
XVI. Addressing Conduct That the School Deems to be Sexual Harassment but Does Not Meet the
Definition of Sexual Harassment Under the Title IX Regulations  ............................................ 57 
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  ..... 57 
XVII. Parent and Guardian Rights ................................................................................................... 58
E
xample Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  ................................................... 58   
1 
 Questions and Answers on the Title IX Regulations on Sexual Harassment (July 2021)  
Ensuring equal access to education for all students—from pre -K through elementary and 
secondary schools and postsecondary institutions —is at the heart of the mission of the U.S. 
Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights . This includes protecting right s of students and 
others to an educational environment free from discrimination based on sex, including 
discrimination in the form of sexual harassment and discrimination based on sexual orientation 
or gender identity, as guaranteed by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 .  
This question-and- answer resource describes OCR’s  interpretation of schools’ responsibilities 
under Title IX , and the Department’s current implementing regulations related to sexual 
harassment , as enforced by OCR . The  focus here is on questions related to the most recent 
amendments to the regulations in 2020 ( the 2020 amendments) .1 The Department is undertaking 
a comprehensive review of its current Title IX regulations as amended in 2020, following 
President Biden’s Executive Order on Guaranteeing an Educational Environment Free from 
Discrimination on the Basis of Sex , Including Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity . While this  
review is ongoing and until any new regulations go into effect, the 2020 amendments remain in 
effect.  
This Q&A does not address policies or procedures under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , 
which prohibits sex discrimination in employment. As the 2020 amendments state: “Nothing in 
[these regulations] may be read in derogation of any individual’s rights under title VII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.  or any regulations promulgated thereunder.”  34 C.F.R. 
§ 106.6(f) . 
For additional information about Title IX, please also see OCR’s Title IX and Sex Discrimination 
Webpage  and OCR’s Sex Discriminat ion FAQ Webpage . You can find the Department’s  Title IX 
regulations , including the 2020 amendments, at 34 C.F.R. Part 106 .  
This Q&A has 17 sections and provides information on a variety of topics  covered  by the 2020 
amendments, including the definition of sexual harassment, how a school can obtain notice of 
sexual harassment, a school’s response to allegations of sexual harassment, and how a school 
must process formal complaints of sexual harassment, including live hearings and cross -
examination.   
 Preamble  references: Please note that where appropriate , this Q&A refers to the 
preamble to the 2020 amendments , which clarifies OCR’s interpretation of Title IX and  
the regulations. You can find citations to specific preamble sections in the endnotes of 
this Q&A. The preamble itself does not have the force and effect of law.  
   
2 
  Q&A Appendix: OCR provides an appendix to accompany this Q&A , with examples of 
policy provisions from various schools . These examples may be helpful as schools 
continue their work to implement the requirements of the 2020 amendments.  
Who can file a discrimination complaint – and how to file: Anyone can file a complaint with OCR, 
including students, parents and guardians, community members, and others who experience or 
observe discrimination in education programs or activities. To file a complaint, please use this  
online form . For more information, see How to File a Discrimination Complaint with the Office 
for Civil Rights  and this short video on How to File a Complaint with the Office for Civil Rights . 
Additional questions?  Please note that this Q&A addresses many important issues but is not 
comprehensive. We recognize that you might have additional questions and invite you to send 
them to OCR  at ocr@ed.gov .  
Alternate formats for accessibility: On request, this publication is available in alternate formats, 
such as Braille or large print. For more information, please contact the Department’s Alternate Format Center at 202 -260- 0818 or via e -mail at alternateformatcenter@ed.gov
. 
Translation Services:  The Department offers language assistance services for all publicly available 
Department information. These services are free of charge. For more information about 
interpretation or translation service s, please see  the Department’s  Notice to Persons with 
Limited English Proficiency . 
Please note:  This Q&A resource  does not have the force and effect of law and is not meant to 
bind the public or regulated entities in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity 
to the public regarding OCR’s interpretation of existing legally binding statutory and regula tory 
requirements.  As always, OCR’s enforcement of Title IX stems from Title IX and its implementing 
regulations, not this or other guidance document s. 
A mini- glossary for this Q&A:  
This Q&A is geared towards recipients of federal financial assistance that  are educational 
institutions and uses the term “schools” to refer to all such recipients, including school districts, 
colleges, and universities.  It also includes several terms that are commonly used in Title IX 
grievance processes for formal complaints of sexual harassment . Here is information about what 
those terms mean in this document : 
Allegation:  An assertion that someone has engaged in sexual 
harassment .  
Complainant:  The person who has experienced  the alleged sexual 
harassment . This person is considered a complainant 
regardless of whether they choose to file a formal 
complaint of sexual harassment under Title IX.    
3 
 Respondent:   The person accused of  the alleged  sexual  harassment . 
Reporter:  The person who reports sexual harassment to the school. 
This may be the complainant but may also be someone 
else (also known as a “third party” reporter).  
Title IX grievance proce ss: This is the formal name used in the Title IX regulations for 
a school ’s process for addressing formal complaints of  
sexual harassment under Title IX.  
Actual knowledge:  When a school receives notice of alleged miscond uct that 
meets the definition of “sexual harassment” under the Title IX regulations , as described below, the school has 
“actual knowledge” and must respond appropriately. Additional information regarding how schools receive 
notice and have “actual knowledg e” is discussed in 
Question 14. 
I. General Obligations  
Question 1: What did the 2020 amendments change about the Department’s Title IX 
regulations?  
Answer 1: The Department’s Title IX regulations  were first issued in 1975, reissued in 1980, 
and then amended after that, including in 2006 and 2020. Prior to 2020, t he regulations set out 
requirements under Title IX for educational programs and activities that receive federal financial 
aid, but they did not include specific requirements related to sexual harassment . Instead, OCR 
had several guidance documents in place to assist schools in understanding how OCR interpreted 
the Department’s Title IX regulations. The 2020 amendments added speci fic, legally binding steps 
that schools must take in response to notice of alleged sexual harassment.  
Question 2: Is a school permitted to take steps in response to reports of sexual harassment 
that go beyond those set out in the  2020 amendments?  
Answer 2: Yes. The 2020 amendments set out the minimum steps that a school must take in 
response to notice of alleged sexual harassment. A school may take additional actions so long as 
those actions do not conflict with Title IX or the 2020 amendments . The preamble provides this 
additional guidance:  
A school “remain[s] free to adopt best practices for supporting survivors and standards of competence for conducting impartial grievance processes, while meeting obligations 
imposed under the [2020 amendments].”
2   
4 
 Question 3: What does the Department expect from schools regarding prevention of sexual 
harassment?   
Answer 3: The 2020 amendments focus on “setting forth requirements for [schools’] 
responses to sexual harassment.”3 However, the preamble also s ays that “the Department agrees 
with commenters that educators, experts, students, and employees should also endeavor to 
prevent  sexual harassment from occurring in the first place.”4 OCR encourages schools to 
undertake prevention efforts that best serve the needs, values, and environment of their own educational communities.   
Question 4: Are there any differences in the 2020 amendments ’ requirements  for 
elementary and secondary schools and postsecondary schools?  
Answer 4: Yes. Although the 2020 amendments have many of the same requirements for 
elementary and secondary and postsecondary schools, there are two requirements that differ – 
notice and live hearings .  
o Notice: A ny time an elementary or secondary school employee has  notice that sexual 
harassment might have occurred, the school must respond. Notice requirements are 
more limited for postsecondary school  employees . See Section V for more information 
on notice requirements .   
o Live hearing:  Only postsecondary schools are required to provide for a live hearing with 
the opportunity for cross -examination to be conducted by each party’s advisor of 
choice. For more information on live hearings and cross -examination, see Section XII . 
II. Definition of Sexual Harassment  
Question 5 :  What is the definition of sexual harassment in the 2020 amendments?  
Answer 5: The 2020 amendments  define sexual harassment to include  certain types of  
unwelcome sexual conduct, sexual assault, dating  violence, domestic violence, and stalking . Here 
is the full definition in the regulations :  
Sexual harassment means conduct on the  basis of sex that satisfies one or more of the 
following: 
(1) An employee of the [school]  conditioning the provision of an aid, benefit, or 
service of  the recipient on an individual’s participation in unwelcome sexual 
conduct;  
(2) Unwelcome conduct, determined by a reasonable person to be so severe, 
pervasive, and  objectively offensive that i t effectively denies a person equal access 
to the school’s  education program or activity ; or    
5 
 (3) ‘Sexual assault ’ as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1092(f)(6)(A)(v) , ‘dating violence ’ as 
defined in 34 U.S.C. 12291(a)(10) , ‘domestic violence ’ as defined in 34 U.S.C. 
12291(a)(8) , or ‘stalking’ as defined in 34 U.S.C. 12291(a)(30) . 
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.30 . 
When unwelcome conduct on the basis of sex  meets  one or more of these three categories, the 
conduct is conside red to be sexual harassment under the 2020 amendments. Here is some 
additional information about each category:  
• The first category is commonly referred to as “quid pro quo” sexual harassment, mean ing 
that a  school  employee offers something to an individual  in exchange for sexual conduct .  
• The second category incorporates the definition of sexual harassment  set out by the 
Supreme Court in  a case about when a school may be required to pay financial 
compensation in a lawsuit for sexual harassment  by one student toward another student. 
The case is  Davis v. Monroe County Board of Education , 526 U.S. 629 (1999) .  
• The third category refers to definitions in the Clery Act and the Violence Against Wo men 
Act (VAWA) . The Clery Act is a federal law that requires colleges and universities that 
participate in the federal student financial aid programs  to provide current and 
prospective students and employees, the public, and the Department with crime stati stics 
and information about campus crime prevention programs and policies.  VAWA is a 
federal law administered by the U.S. Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Health and Human 
Services (HHS) that supports comprehensive responses to domestic violence,  sexual  
assault, dating violence , and stalking.   
Definitions under the Clery Act: The Clery Act defines sexual assault  as a forcible or 
nonforcible offense under the uniform crime reporting system of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.5 This system includes the National Incident- Based Reporting System 
(NIBRS) , which defines forcible sex offenses to include any sexual act , including rape, 
sodomy, sexual assault with an object, or fondling “ directed against another person, 
without the consent of the victim including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent.”  Please see Question 6 explaining that the 2020 amendments do not 
require scho ols to use a particular definition of consent. NIBRS  also includes  incest and 
statutory rape as  “nonforcible” sex offenses.
6 Conduct that fits within any of these 
definitions under NIBRS is considered a type of sexual harassment  in the 2020 
amendments .  
Definitions under VAWA: The 2020 amendments refer to the following definitions of 
dating violence , domestic violence, and stalking in VAWA: 
• Dating violence  includes violence committed by a person who has been in a social 
relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the complainant; the existence   
6 
 of such a relationship shall be determined based on consideration of the length of 
the relationship, the type of relationship, and the frequency of interaction 
between the persons involved in the relationship.7  
• Domestic violence  includes felony or misdemeanor crimes of violence committ ed 
by: a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the complainant, a person 
with whom the complainant shares a child, a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the complainant as a spouse or intimate partner, a person 
similarly situated to a spouse of the complainant under the jurisdiction’s domestic 
or family violence laws, or any other person against a  complainant who is 
protected under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction.
8  
• Stalking  is defined as engaging in a  course of conduct directed at a specific person 
that would cause a reasonable person to fear for their own safety or the safety of 
others or  to suffer substantial emotional distress.9 The 2020 amendments cover 
instances of stalking based on sex —including  stalking that occurs online or 
through messaging platforms, commonly known as cyber -stalking —when it occurs 
in the school’s education program or activity.10   
Question 6: Do schools need to adopt a particular definition of consent for determining whether conduct is “unwelcome” under the definition of sexual harassment in 
the 2020 amendments?  
Answer 6: No. The preamble states that the Department will not require a school to adopt a 
particular definition of consent.
11 The preamble explains that a school has the flexibility to choose 
a definition of consent that “best serves the unique needs, values, and environment of the [school’s] own educational community. ”
12 
Question 7:  May a school respond to alleged sexual misconduct that does not meet the 
definition of sexual harassment in the 2020 amendments ?  
Answer  7:  Yes. The preamble makes clear that “Title IX is not the exclusive remed y for sexual 
misconduct or traumatic events that affect students.”13 A school has discretion to respond 
appropriately to reports of sexual misconduct that do not fit within the scope of conduct covered 
by the Title IX grievance process.14 This may include, for example, reported sexual misconduct 
that a) occurs outside of a school’s education program or activity; b) occurs outside of the United 
States; or  c) causes harm in the school environment that does not fit within the definition set o ut 
above in Question 5 .15  
The preamble also says  that “nothing in the final regulations precludes [a school] from vigorously 
addressing misconduct (sexual or otherwise) that occurs outside the scope of Title IX  or from 
offering supportive measures to students and individuals impacted by misconduct or  trauma. ”16    
7 
 Put simply, T itle IX’s sexual harassment regulation need  not replace a school’s more expansive 
code of conduct and does not prohibit a school from enfor cing that code  to address misconduct 
that does not constitute sexual harassment under the 2020 amendments . OCR encourages 
schools to develop and enforce their codes as an additional tool for ensuring safe and supportive 
educational environments  for all students.  OCR does not enforce school codes of conduct but 
may investigate complaints that a school’s code of conduct treated students differently based on 
sex, including sexual orientation or  gender identity .17 
For examples of school codes that addres s sexual misconduct not covered by Title IX, please see 
Q&A Appendix Section XVI . 
Question 8: How can a school determine whether sexual harassment “ effectively denies  a 
person’s right to equal access to its education program or a ctivity ” under the 
“unwelcome conduct” category in the definition of sexual harassment in the 
2020 amendments ? (See the definition in Question 5 .) 
Answer  8: The preamble explains that to determin e whether a person has been effectively 
denied equal access to a school’s education program or activity , a school must evaluate “whether 
a reasonable person in the complainant’s position would be effectively denied equal access to 
education compared to a si milarly situated person who is not suffering the alleged sexual 
harassment. ”18  
The preamble provides this additional guidance to schools:  
• An effective denial of equal access to educational opportunities may include skipping class 
to avoid a harasser, a de cline in a student’s grade point average, or having difficulty 
concentrating in class.19  
• Examples of specific situations that likely constitute effective denial of equal access to 
educational opportunities also include “a third grader who starts bed- wetti ng or crying at 
night due to sexual harassment, or a high school wrestler who quits the team but carries 
on with other school activities following sexual harassment.”20 
• A complainant does not need to have “already suffered loss of education before being 
able to report sexual harassment .”21 
• Effective denial of equal access to education does not require “that a person’s total or 
entire educational access has been denied.”22  
• While these examples help illustrate an effective denial of access, “ [n]o concrete injury is 
required” to prove an effective denial of equal access.23    
8 
 • Complainants do not need to have “ dropped out of school, failed a class, had a panic 
attack, or otherwis e reached a ‘breaking point’” or exhibited specific trauma symptoms 
to be effectively denied equal access.24  
• “School officials turning away a complainant by deciding the complainant was ‘not 
traumatized enough’ would be impermissible.”25 
Schools may wish to include these and other examples in their internal policies, training, and 
communications to students and employees to  help  illustrate this concept.  
III. Where Sexual Harassment Occurs  
Question 9 :  Which settings  are covered by the 2020 amendments ?  
Answer 9 :  The 2020 amendments  apply to reports of sexual harassment in education 
programs and activities  in the United States, including in the following settings :  
1. Buildings or other locat ions that are part of the school’s operations, including remote  
learning platforms;  
2. Off-campus settings if the school exercised substantial control over the respondent and 
the context in which the  alleged sexual harassment  occurred  (e.g., a school field trip to a 
museum) ; and  
3. Off-campus buildings owned or controlled by a student organization officially recognized 
by a postsecondary school, such as a building owned by a recognized fraternity or 
sorority.26  
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a) . For  more information on how a 
school can determine whether it has substantial control over the respondent and context in an off-campus setting, see Question 10.   
The 2020 amendments require that schools provide train ing to  their Title IX personnel to 
“accura tely identify situations that require a response under Title IX.”27 OCR also encourages 
schools to include examples of their programs and activities in each of the three areas described above in their policies, staff training, and student- oriented communic ations.  
Please note that sexual harassment that takes place in settings outside of the United States is not 
covered under the 2020 amendments.
28  
Schools should also note that, under the 2020 amendments , a school may still offer “supportive 
measures to a complainant who reports sexual harassment that occurred outside the [school’s] education program or activity, and any sexual harassment that does occur in an education 
program or activity must be responded to even if it related to, or happens subsequent to , sexual 
harassment that occurred outside the education program or activity.”
29   
9 
 Question 10:  How should a school determine whether it has substantial control over the 
respondent and context in an off -campus setting ?  
Answer  10:  The school must make a fact- specific determination. The preamble says that  it 
“may be helpful o r useful for a [ school] to consider factors applied by Federal courts to determine 
the scope of a [school’s] education pr ogram or activity ”—such as “whether the [school]  funded, 
promoted, or sponsored the event or circumstance where the alleged harassment occurred” —
but also that “ no single factor is determinative”  in concluding whether the school has substantial 
control over  the respondent and the context in which the reported harassment occurred.30  
In making this fact -specific determination , the preamble also says:  
A school “must consider whether, for example, a sexual harassment incident between 
two students that occurs in an off- campus apartment” or house is a “situation over which 
the [school ] exercised substantial control [and], if so, the [school] must respond [ to 
notice ] of sexual harassment or allegations of sexual harassment that occurred there. ”31  
If an incident of sexual harassment between two students in a private hotel room occurs in a context related to a school -sponsored activity, such as a school field trip or travel with a school 
athletics team, the school would need to consider whether it exercise d substantial control over 
the context in which the sexual harassment occurred.
32  
The preamble adds that a school may have substantial control over an incident that occurred in 
a student’s home, such as where “a teacher employed by a school visits a stude nt’s home 
ostensibly to give the student a book but in reality to instigate sexual activity with the student.”33  
Question 11: How do the 2020 amendments  apply to alleged sexual harassment that takes 
place  electronically or  on an  online platform used by the school?  
Answer 11: In discussing Title IX and online platforms used by a school, the preamble provides 
this guidance to schools :  
• The operations of a school “may certainly include computer and internet networks, digital 
platforms, and computer hardware or software owned or operated by, or used in the 
operations of, the [school].”34  
• “[T]he factual circumstances of online harassment must be analyzed to determine if it 
occurred in an education program o r activity.”35 
The preamble adds that the definition of “education program or activity” in the 2020 
amendments “does not create a distinction between sexual harassment occurring in person 
versus online.”36   
10 
 Question 12 : How do the 2020 amendments apply to alleged sexual harassment that is 
perpetrated by a student using a personal electronic device during class?  
Answer 12: The preamble explains that “a student using a personal device to perpetrate 
online sexual harassment during class time may constitute a circumstance over which the 
[school] exercises substantial control.”37 As with in- person harassment, “the factual 
circumstances of online harassment must be analyzed to determine if it  occurred” in 
circumstances “over which a school exercised substantial control over the respondent and the 
context.”38 
IV. When Harassment Occurred  
Question 13:  What is the appropriate standard for evaluating alleged sexual harassment that 
occurred before the 2020 amendments took effect? 
Answer 13:  The 2020 amendments took effect on August 14, 2020 , and are not retroactive. 
This means that a school must follow the requirements of the Title IX statute and the regulations that were in place at the time of the alleged incident; the 2020 amendments do not apply to 
alleged sexual harassment occurring before August 14, 2020. This is true  even if the school’s 
response was on or after this date. In other words, if the conduct at issue in the complaint took place prior to August 14, 2020 , the 2020 amendments do not apply even if the complaint  was 
filed with a school on or after August 14, 20 20.  
Before August 2020, the Title IX regulations did not have specific requirements for schools 
related to sexual harassment . Instead, OCR had several guidance documents in place to assist 
schools in understanding how OCR interpret ed the Department’s Title IX regulations. Although 
the guidance documents issued in 2011 and 2014  were re scinded in 2017 , and the 2001
 and 
2017  guidance documents were rescinded in 2020, these docum ents remain accessible on 
OCR’s website for historical purposes to the extent they are helpful to schools when responding to earlier allegations of sexual harassment.
39   
V. Notice of Sexual Harassment  
Question 14: Which school employees must be notified about allegations of sexual 
harassment for a school to be put on notice that it must respond?  
Answer 14: In elementary and secondary school settings, a school must respond whenever 
any school e mployee has notice of sexual harassment.40 This includes notice to a teacher, 
teacher’s aide, bus driver, cafeteria worker, counselor, school resource officer, maintenance staff 
worker, coach, athletic trainer, or any other school employee.41  
In postsecondary school settings, notice may be  more limited in scope. The institution must 
respond when notice is received by the Title IX C oordinator or another official who has authority 
to institute corrective measures on the institution’s behalf.42 The Department is unable to   
11 
 provide examples of types of individuals who have this authority because the determination of 
whether a person is an official who has authority to institute corrective measures on behalf of 
the institution depends on facts  specific to that institution. A school “may, at its discretion, 
expressly designate specific employees as officials with this authority for purposes of Title IX sexual harassment and may inform students of such designations .”
43  
The preamble explains that “the Department does not limit the manner in which [a school]  may 
receive notice of sexual harassment .” This means that the employees described above “may 
receive notice through an oral report of sexual harassment by a complainant or anyone else, a 
written report, through personal observation, through a newspaper article, through an 
anonymous report, or through various other means.”44 
The 2020 amendments  refer to this notice of sexual harassment as “actual knowledge.”  
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.30 . 
Question 15 : If a school trains or requires non- employees who interact with the school’s 
students to report sexual harassment incidents, are those individuals  (for 
example, volunteers, alumni, independent contractors ) automatically 
considered “officials with authority to institute  corrective measures” on the 
school’s behalf?   
Answer 15: No. The 2020 amendments  state that a t any school level —elementary, secondary, 
or postsecondary —“[t] he mere ability or obligation to report sexual harassment or to inform  a 
student about how to report sexual harassment, or having been trained to do so, does not qualify 
an individual [ such as a volunteer parent, or alumnus ] as one who has  authority to institute 
corrective measures on behalf of the [ school ].”45  
The preamble  explains that  “the Department does not wish to discourage [schools] from training 
individuals who interact with the [school’s] students about how to report sexual harassment.”46 
It also says that “the Department will not assume that a person is an official with authority solely 
based on the fact that the person has received training on how to report sexual harassment.”47 
Similarly, the preamble says that “the Department will not conclude that volunteers and independent contractors are officials with authority, unless the [school] has granted the 
volunteers or independent contractors authority to institute corrective measures on behalf of 
the [school].”
48 
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.30 .   
12 
 Question 16 :  May a school accept reports of sexual harassment from individuals who are not 
associated with the school in any way?  
Answer 16: Yes. A  school may receive actual knowledge of sexual harassment from any 
person .49 There is n o requirement that the person be participating in or attempting to participate 
in a school program or activity to report sexual harassment.50 
Question 17 : Is a school required to respond to allegations of sexual harassment if the  only 
employee or school official who has notice of the harassment is the alleged 
harasser?  
Answer 17: No t under the 2020 amendments . At any school level—elementary, secondary, or 
postsecondary—the school does not have notice for purposes of Title IX if the only official or employee of the school with actual knowledge is the respondent.
51 The preamble explains the 
reason for this is that the school “will not have [an] opportunity to appropriately respond if the only official or employee who knows [of the alleged misconduct] is the respondent.”
52 
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.30 . 
Question 18: Is a school required to respond if it has notice of alleged misconduct that could  
meet the definition of sexual harassment but is not certain whether the 
harassment has occurred?  
Answer 18: Yes. At any school level—elementary, secondary, or postsecondary —actual 
knowledge refers to notice of conduct that could  constitute sexual harassment.53 A complainant 
is “an individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sexual harassment” and the definition of actual knowledge refers to “allegations of sexual 
harassment.”
54 Thus, the preamble explains that a school must respond promptly and 
appropriately when it receives notice of alleged facts that, if true, c ould be considered sexual 
harassment under the 2020 amendments.55  
For additional information, please see  34 C.F.R. § 106.30 . 
Question 19 : Does a postsecondary school have discretion to require additional empl oyees to 
report allegations of sexual harassment  to the school ? 
Answer 19: Yes. The preamble says that a postsecondary school may empower as many 
officials as it wishes to institute corrective measures on its behalf, including c oaches and athletic 
trainers.56 If any of these officials receives notice of sexual harassment allegations, the school 
must respond as the 2020 amendments require  (see Question 20).57 The preamble also provides 
this guidance:  
• A postsecondary school has discretion to determine which of their employees should be 
mandatory reporters, and which employees may keep a student’s disclosure about sexual   
13 
 harassment confidential (e.g., counselors, therapists, other mental health providers, 
victim advocates).58 
• Nothing in the 2020 amendments prevents a postsecondary school “from instituting [its] own polic [y] to require professors, instructors, or all employees to report to the Title IX 
Coordinator every incident and report of sexual harassment.”
59 However, the 
Department will not hold a postsecondary school responsible for responding to such 
sexual harassment unless an employee “actually did give notice to the [school’s] Title IX Coordinator” or other official with authority to institute corrective measures.
60 
• A postsecondary school may also “ empower as many officials as it wishes with the 
requisite authority to institute corrective measures on the [school’s] behalf, and notice to 
these officials with authority constitutes the [school’s] actual knowledge.”61 A 
postsecondary school “may also publicize [a] list[] of officials with this authority,” and OCR 
encourages postsecondary schools to do  so, as this will assist students and others to 
understand which reports will require the school to respond.62  
VI. Response to Sexual Harassment  
Question 20: How must a school respond to allegations of sexual harassment?  
Answer 20: When a school has actual knowledge of sexual harassment in any of its programs 
or activit ies that take place in the United States, it must “ respond promptly in a manner that is 
not deliberately indifferent. ”63 This includes schools that serve any age, grade, or level of 
students, from pre -K through postsecondary . 
The Title IX Coordinator must promptly contact the complainant to discuss the availability of supportive measures, regardless of whether a formal complaint is filed, and to explain the 
process for filing a formal co mplaint.
64 For more on supportive measures, see Question s 32-34. 
In addition, if a formal complaint is filed, either by the complainant or the Title IX Coordinator, a school must:  
• offer supportive measures to the respondent, and  
• follow the Title IX grieva nce process specified by the 2020 amendments .
65 For more on 
this process, including the requirement to offer supportive measures to the respondent, 
see Question  26 and Section IX . 
In addition to setting out these requirements, the regulations provide that a school is deliberately 
indifferent “ only if its response to sexual harassment is clearly unreasonable in light of the known 
circumstances. ”66 
 For more information on the obligations described in this section, please see 34 C.F.R. § 
106.44(a) .   
14 
 Question 21 : Is a school required to impose particular remedies when a respondent is found 
responsible for sexual harassment?  
Answer 21: No. The 2020 amendments do not dictate that a school provide any particular 
remedies  for the complainant or disciplinary sanctions for the respondent after a finding of 
responsibility .67 Each school is free to make disciplinary and remedial decisions that it “ believes 
are in the best interest of [its] educational environment. ”68 
When a school finds a respondent responsible for sexual harassment under its Title IX grievance 
process, the school must provide remedies to the complainant that are “designed to restore or 
preserve equal access to the [school’s] education program or activity.”69 These remedies may 
include the same individualized services that the school provided to the complainant as supportive measures , additional services, or different services .
70 These remedies  can be 
disciplinary or punitive and can burden the respondent.71 Schools are required to “[d]escribe the 
range of possible disciplinary sanctions and remedies or list the possible disciplinary sanctions 
and remedies ,”72 however the preamble clarifies that this requirement “is not intended to 
unnecessarily restrict a [school’s]  ability to tailor disciplinary sanctions to address specific 
situations.”73 
For additional information , please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(i) , 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(vi) , and  
34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(7)(ii)(E) . 
VII. Formal Complaints  
Question 22 : What is a “formal complaint” under the 2020 amendments?  
Answer 22: A “formal complaint” is a document filed by a complainant alleging sexual 
harassment against a respondent and requesting that the school investigate the allegation of 
sexual harassment.74 It may be a hard copy document or an electronic document submitted v ia 
email or an online portal.75 Whether it is a hard copy document or an electronic document, it 
must contain the complainant’s physical or digital signature or otherwise indicate that the 
complainant is the person filing the formal complaint.76 For example, an email from a student to 
the Title IX Coordinator that ends with the student signing their name would suffice.  
A formal complaint may be filed with the school’s Title IX Coordinator in person, by mail, or by 
email using the contact information provided by the school. A formal complaint  may also be filed 
by any additional method designated by the school.77 A parent or guardian who has a legal right 
to act on behalf of an individual may also file a formal complaint on that individual’s  behalf.78 In 
addi tion, a  Title IX Coordinator may  initiate a formal complaint  as described in Question 24 .79  
For additional information , please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 .   
15 
 Question 23: Is a school required to accept a formal complaint of sexual harassment from a 
complainant who is not currently enrolled in or attending the school?  
Answer  23:  Yes, but only if the complainant is attempting to participate in the school’s 
education program or ac tivity at the time they file the formal complaint.80 Individuals who are 
currently participating in the school’s education program or activity may also file formal 
complaints.81 When a formal complaint is filed, the school must respond as described in Ques tion 
20. 
The preamble gives several examples of situations of a complain ant “attempting to participate” 
in a school’s education program, including when a complainant:  
(1) has withdrawn from  the school due to alleged sexual harassment and expresses a 
desire to re -enroll if the school responds appropriately to the allegations, 
(2) has graduated but intends to apply to a new program or  intends  to participate in 
alumni programs and activities , 
(3) is on a leave of absence and is still enrolled as a student or intends to re -apply after 
the leave of absence, or  
(4) has applied for admission.82 
It is important to keep in mind that this requirement concerns a complainant’s status at the time 
a formal complaint is filed  and is not affected by a complainant’s later decision to remain or leave 
the school.83  
Question 24: If a complainant has not filed a formal complaint and is not participating in or attempting to participate in the school’s educ ation program or activity, may the 
school’s Title IX Coordinator file a formal complaint? 
Answer 24: Yes. A Title IX Coordinator may  file a formal complaint even if the complainant is 
not associated with the school in any way.
84  
In some cases, a school may be in violation of Title IX if the Title IX Coordinator does not do so.85 
For example, the preamble explains that if a school “has actual knowledge of a pattern of alleged 
sexual harassment by a perpetrator in a position of au thority,” OCR may find the school to be 
deliberately indifferent (i.e., to have acted in a  clearly unreasonable way) if the school’s Title IX 
Coordinator does not sign a formal complaint, “even if the complainant . . . does not wish to file 
a formal complaint or participate in a grievance process.”86 Put simply, there are circumstances 
when a Title IX Coordinator may need to sign a formal complaint that obligates the school to initiate an investigation regardless of the complainant’s relationship with the s chool  or interest 
in participating in the Title IX grievance process . This is because the school has a Title IX obligation 
to provide all students, not just the complainant, with an educational environment that does not 
discriminate based on sex.    
16 
 Question 25: If a complainant is not participating in or attempting to participate in the 
school’s education program or activity, may a school respond to reports of 
sexual harassment under its own code of conduct?  
Answer  25: Yes. As discussed in Question 7 , a school has discretion to use its own student-
conduct process to address alleged misconduct not covered by the 2020 amendments. This 
includes situations where a complainant is not participating in or attempting to participate in the 
school’s education program or activity.87 There are also  circumstances when a Title IX 
Coordinator may need to file a formal complaint that obligates the school to initiate an 
investigation regardless of the complainant’ s relationship with the school or interest in 
participating in the Title IX grievance process.  See Question 24.  
Question 26: Is a school required to take action even if the respondent has left the school prior 
to the filing of a formal complaint with no plans to return?  
Answer  26: Yes. As explained in the preamble, a school must always respond promptly to a 
complainant’s report of  sexual harassment  when it has actual knowledge .88 (For more on actual 
knowledge, see Question 14.)  The Title IX Coordinator must inform the  complainant about the 
availability of supportive measures , with or without the filing of a formal complaint, and consider 
the complainant’s wishes regarding supportive measures . 89 
Question 27: Is a school required to dismiss a formal complaint if a respondent leaves the 
school?  
Answer  27: No. Although a school may dismiss a formal complaint if, at any time during the 
grievance process, the respondent is “no longer enrolled or employed” by the school, dismissal 
is not required.90 The preamble explain s that a school has discretion to assess the facts and 
circumstances of a  case before deciding whether to dismiss the complaint because the 
respondent has left the school.91 
A school may consider, for example, “whether a respondent poses an ongoing risk to the 
[school’s] community,” or “whether a determination regarding responsibility provides a benefit 
to the complainant even where the [school] lacks control over the respondent and would be 
unable to issue disciplinary sanctions, or other reasons.”92 
Proceeding  with the grievance process could potentially allow a school to determine the scope 
of the harassment, whether school employees knew about it but failed to respond, whether there 
is a pattern of harassment in particular programs or activities, whether mult iple complainants 
experienced harassment by the same respondent, and what appropriate remedial actions are necessary.    
17 
 Question 28: May a school use trauma- informed approaches when responding to a formal 
complaint?  
Answer 28: Yes. A school may use trauma- informed approaches to respond to a formal 
complaint of sexual harassment. The preamble clarifies that  the 2020 amendments do not 
preclude a school “from applying trauma- informed techniques, practices, or approaches,” but 
notes that the use of such approaches must be consistent with the requirements of 34 C.F.R. § 
106.45 , particularly  34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(iii) .93  
VIII. Handling Situations in Which a Party or Witness May be Unable to Participate in the 
Title IX Grievance Process in Person  
Question 29:  May a school stop offering its Title IX grievance process due to the COVID -19 
pandemic?  
Answer 29:  No. A school must follow its polic ies for receiving and responding to reports of 
sexual harassment and may not adopt a policy of putting investigations or proceedings on hold 
due to COVID -19.94  
For additional discussion of schools’ ongoing Title IX obligations during the COVID -19 pandemic, 
please see OCR’s Questions and Answers on Civil Rights and School Reopening in the C OVID -19 
Environment.  
Question 30 : How should a school proceed in the Title IX sexual harassment grievance process when a party or a witness is temporarily unable to participate due to a disability ? 
Answer 30:  A school has “discretion to apply limited extensions of time frames during the 
grievance process for good cause, which may include, for example, a temporary postponement of a hearing to accommodate a disability.”
95 However, when deciding whether to grant a delay 
or extension, a school must balance the interests of promptness, fairness to the parti es, and 
accuracy of adjudications. The school also must promptly notify all parties of the reason for the 
delay and the estimated length of the delay, in addition to important updates about the investigation.
96  
Additionally, a school must not delay investigations or hearings solely because in -person 
interviews or hearings are not feasible. Instead, a school must use technology, as appropriate , to 
conduct activities remotely, in a timely and equitable manner, and consistent with the applicable law. 
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v)
.   
18 
 Question 31 : May a school use technology  to permit partic ipants to appear virtually  in its Title 
IX grievance process?  
Answer 31: Yes. The 2020 amendments grant a school discretion to allow participants, 
including witnesses, to appear at a live hearing virtually; however, technology must enable all 
participants to see and hear other participants,97 with appropriate accommodat ions for 
individuals with disabilities.  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) . 
IX. Supportive Measures  and Temporary Removal of Respondents from Campus  
Question 32:  Does a school have to offer  supportive measures to a complainant who has not 
filed a formal complaint of sexual harassment?  
Answer 32: Yes. The 2020 amendments specify that the school must contact the complainant 
to discuss the availability of , and to offer , supportive measures, regardless of whether a formal 
complaint is filed.98 A school must also consider the complainant’s wishes with respect to 
supportive measures.99  
For additional information, please  see 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 and 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a) .  
Question 33 : What are the supportive measures a school must offer  to complainants ?  
Answer 33:  A school must offer supportive measures that “are designed to restore or 
preserve equal access to the [school ’s] education program or activity.”100 The 2020 amendments 
add that these include “measures designed to protect the safety of all parties or the [school ’s] 
educational environment, or deter sexual harassment.”101 A school also must consider the 
complainant’s wishes in determining which supportive measures to provide and may not provide 
supportive measures that “unreasonably burden[] the other party.”102 
A school ha s discretion and flexibility to determine which supportive measures are appropriate. 
The preamble states that a school must consider “each set of unique circumstances” to 
determine what individualized services would be appropriate based on the “facts and circumstances of that situation.”
103  
Examples of supportive measures include “counseling, extensions of deadlines or other course -
related adjustments, modifications of work or class schedules, campus escort services, mutual restrictions on contact between th e parties, changes in work or housing locations, leaves of 
absence, increased security and monitoring of certain areas of the campus, and other similar measures.”
104  
For additional information, please  see 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 and 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a) .    
19 
 Question 34 :  Is a school still required to provide supportive measures during the COVID -19 
pandemic?  
Answer 34:  Yes. COVID -19-related disruptions do not relieve a school of its obligation to 
comply with Title IX . A school must continue to offer academic adjustments and supports to 
complainants and  respondents in Title IX sexual harassment complaints .  
In light of the COVID -19 pandemic, “the facts and circumstances”105 of a given situation may 
require a school to provide remote counseling, or similar teletherapy option, as a supportive 
measure to students who are unable to access on- campus counseling services. Similarly, in  a 
remote learning environment, supportive measures may include ensuring that parties to a 
complaint do not share the same online classes.  
For additional discussion of schools’ ongoing Title IX obligations during the COVID -19 pandemic, 
please see OCR’s Questions and Answers on Civil Rights and School Reopening in the C OVID -19 
Environment.  
Question 35 :  May a school remove a respondent from ca mpus while a Title IX grievance 
process is pending if the school determines that the respondent is a threat to 
others?  
Answer 35:  Yes. The 2020 amendments specify that a school may  remove a respondent from 
its education program  or activity on an emergency basis.106 The school must “undertake[] an 
individualized safety and risk analysis, determine[] that an immediate threat to the physical 
health or safety of any student or other individual arising from the allegations of sexual 
harassment justifies removal, and provide[] the respondent with notice and an opportunity to challenge the decision immediately following the removal.”
107 A school must also meet its 
obligations to  students under federal disability laws.108 
A school may also place non -student employee respondents on administrative leave while a Title 
IX grievance process is pending.109 Again, the school must comply with federal disability laws , as 
applicable .110  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. §§ 106.44(c) -(d). 
X. Presumption of No Responsibility  
Question 36:  The 2020 amendments require schools to presume that the respondent is not 
responsible for the alleged misconduct. Does this  mean the school also must 
assume the complainant is lying  or that the alleged harassment did not occur ? 
Answer 36:  No. A school should never assume a complainant of sexual harassment is lying  or 
that the alleged harassment did not occur .    
20 
 The 2020 amendments require a school to include in its Title IX grievance process “a presumption 
that the  respondent is not responsible for the alleged conduct until a determination regarding 
responsibility is made at the conclusion of the grievance process.”111 However, the preamble 
explains that “[t]he presumption does not imply that the alleged harassment did not o ccur ,” or 
that the respondent is truthful or a complainant is untruthful.112 Instead, the preamble says that 
the presumption is designed to ensure that investigators and decision- makers serve impartially 
and do not prejudge that the respondent is responsibl e for the alleged harassment.113 Schools 
that have relied on this presumption to decline services to a complainant or to make assumptions about a complainant’s credibility have done so in error.  
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section XI. 
XI. Time Frames  
Question 37: What is the appropriate length of time for a school’s investigation into a 
complaint of sexual harassment?  
Answer 37: The 2020 amendments  require that a school’s grievance process for formal 
complaints of sexual harassment include reasonably prompt time frames for concluding the 
process , including filing and resolving appeals and for any informal resolution processes the 
school offer s.114 The preamble states that because the 2020 amendments specify that “the time 
frames designated by the [school] must account for conclusion of the entire grievance process, 
including appeals and any informal resolution process,” no part of the process “is subje ct to an 
open- ended time frame.”115 
The preamble also explains that “the reasonableness of the time frame is evaluated in the context 
of the [school’s] operation of an education program or activity.”116 Additionally, the preamble 
says that “the conclusion of the grievance process must be reasonably prompt, because students 
(or employees) should not have to wait longer than necessary to know the resolution of a formal 
complaint of sexual harassment; any grievance process is difficult for both parties, and 
participating in such a process likely detracts from students’ ability to focus on participating in 
the [school’s] education program or activity.”117 The preamble adds that because “victims of 
sexual harassment are entitled to remedies to restore or preserve eq ual access to education, . . . 
prompt resolution of a formal complaint of sexual harassment is necessary to further Title IX’s 
nondiscrimination mandate. ”118 
The preamble explains that each school “is in the best position to balance promptness with 
fairness  and accuracy based on [its] own unique attributes and [its] experience with its own 
student disciplinary proceedings,” and thus, each school has discretion to determine its own reasonably prompt time frames.
119 A school must resolve each formal complaint o f sexual 
harassment according to the time frames the school has committed to in its grievance process.120    
21 
 The Department had previously identified, but not required, a 60 -day time  frame , prior to appeal, 
for resolving sexual harassment complaints. Although that guidance is no longer in place, nothing 
in the 2020 amendments prohibits a school from adopting the 60 -day time frame.121  
The 2020 amendments  permit a temporary delay of the grievance process or the limited 
extension of time frames, with good cause.122 The 2020 amendments provide illustrations of 
good cause, including considerations such as the absence of a party, a party ’s advisor, or a 
witness; concurrent law enforcement activity; or the need for langua ge assistance or 
accommodation of disabilities .123  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v) . 
XII. Live Hearings  and Cross- Examination  
Please note:  As a result of a federal district court order issued on July 28, 2021,1 the part of the 
2020 amendments that states: “If a party or witness does not submit to cross -examination at 
the live hearing, the decision- maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness  
in reaching a determination regarding responsibility ,” 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) , has been set 
aside . In light of the district court’s decision, Q&As 51- 54 (as well as the reference to Question 
51 in Answer 42) are no longer applicable.  OCR has added Questions A through D to this 
section to provide additional clarification regarding the court’s decision . 
Question 38 : Are all schools required to hold live hearings as part of their Title IX grievance 
processes?  
Answer 38: Postsecondary schools must have a live hearing under the 2020 amendments.124 
A live hearing may occur virtually “with technology enabling the decision -maker[] and parties to 
simultaneously see and hear the party or the witness answering questions.”125 Elementary and 
secondary schools are not required to have a live hearing.126 
For additional information , please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6) . 
Question 39 : W hat is cross- examination?  
Answer 39: At a live hearing,  “each party ’s advisor [must be permitted to] to ask the other 
party and any witnesses all relevant questions and follow- up questions, including those 
challenging credibility.”127 The 2020 amendments refer to this process of questioning as cross -
examination.  
The 2020 amendments explain that a party may not conduct cross- examin ation, but instead the 
party’s  advisor must ask the questions on their behalf.128 The amendments also requi re a 
 
1 Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona, No. 1:20 -cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals 
pending (1st Cir.).    
22 
 postsecondary school to provide an advisor to conduct cross -examination for any party who does 
not have their own advisor.129 
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6) . 
Question 40: Since elementary and secondary schools are not required to provide a live 
hearing, what kind of process are they required to provide?  
Answer 40: The 2020 amendments state that elementary and secondary schools “must afford 
each party the opportunity to submit written, relevant questions that a party wants asked of any 
party or witness, provide each party with the answers, and allow for additional, limited follow -
up questions from each party .”130 In addition, the decision -maker “must explain to the party 
proposing the questions any decision to exclude a question as not relevant.”131  
The preamble also explains that a school may exclude as not relevant questions that are 
duplicative or repetitive.132  
The 2020 amendments permit a parent or legally authorized guardian  to act on behalf of the 
complainant or respondent.133 Whether a parent or guardian has the legal right to act on behalf 
of a complainant or respondent “would be determined by State law, court orders, child custody 
arrangements, or other sources granting legal rights to parents or guardians.”134 If a parent or 
guardian has a legal right to act on a complainant o r respondent’s behalf, this authority applies 
throughout all aspects of the Title IX matter, including throughout the grievance process.135  
For additional information, please  see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(ii)  and 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 .  
Question 41:  Is a postsecondary school required to provide complainants and respondents 
with an advisor for  a live hearing?  
Answer 41: Yes. The 2020 amendments require a postsecondary school to provide an advisor 
to conduct cross -examination for any party who does not have their own advisor.136 The 
amendments also require a ll school s to provide the parties with the same opportunities to be 
accompanied by an advisor of their choice in  other parts of the grievance process, but do not 
require a school to provide an advisor for any part of the process other than the requir ement 
that a postsecondary school provide one for cross -examination.137  
The preamble explains that the parties are in the best position to decide which individuals should 
serve as their advisors and notes that advisors may be friends, family members, an attorney, or 
other individuals chosen by the party or provided by the school if the party does not choose 
one.138   
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(5)(iv)  and 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) .   
23 
 Question 42: Are parties and witnesses required to participate in the Title IX grievance 
process, includi ng submitting to cross -examination during a live hearing at the 
postsecondary school level?  
Answer 42: No. Parties and witnesses are not required to submit to cross -examination or 
otherwise participate in the Title IX grievance process.139 [The strike -through below indicates 
Q&A s  that are no lon ger applicable  in light of Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona, No. 
1:20- cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021) , appeals pending (1st Cir.) ]   For 
information on the consequences of not submitting to cross -examination, see Question 51.     
The 2020 amendments do require schools to offer complainants supportive measures regardless 
of whether they participate in a grievance process and to prohibit retalia tion against individuals 
based on their decision to participate, or not participate, in a grievance process.140  
Question 43 : May a school create its own rules for conducting a live hearing? 
Answer 43: Yes. The preamble states that a school may  implement rules regarding how the 
live hearing is conducted as  long as th ose rules are applied equally to both parties.141 For 
example, a school “may decide whether or  how to place limits on evidence introduced at a 
hearing that was not gathered and presented prior to the hearing .”142  
The preamble also explains that a school may adopt rules on “whether the parties may offer opening or closing statements, specify a process for making objections to the relevance of 
questions and evidence, [and] place reasonable time limitations on a hearing.”
143 The preamble 
adds that a school may adopt a rule stating that duplicative questions are irrelevant.144 
In addition, the preamble says that an advisor’s cross -examination role “is satisfied whe re the 
advisor poses questions on a party’s behalf, which means that an assigned advisor could relay a party’s own questions to the other party or witness.”
145 Thus, for example, a postsecondary 
school could limit the role of  advisors to relaying questions drafted by their party.  
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section s V-VII. 
Question 44 : May a school put in place rules of decorum or other rules for advisors, parties, 
and witnesses to follow during a live hearing?  
Answer 44: Yes. The preamble says that a school may “ adopt rules of decorum” and notes that 
a school is “in a better position than the Department to craft rules of decorum best suited to [its]  
educational environment.”146  
For example, a s chool may prohibit advisors from questioning parties or witnesses in an abusive, 
intimidating, or disrespectful manner.147  
A school also may require a party to use a different advisor if the party’s advisor refuses to comply 
with the school’s rules of decorum. For example, the preamble explains that if a party’s advisor   
24 
 of choice yells at others in violation of a school’s rules of decorum, the school may remove the 
advisor and require a replacement.148 The school has this authority even when the advisor is 
asking a question that is relevant to the hearing. If the manner in which an advisor attempts to 
ask the question is harassing, intimidating, or abusive (e.g., advisor yells, screams, or comes too 
close to a witness ), the preamble explains that a school may enforce a rule requiring that relevant 
questions must be asked in a respectful, non- abusive manner.149 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section VI. 
Question 45: Are all parties required to be physically present in the same location during the 
live hearing?  
Answer 45: No. The 2020 amendments state that, “at the [school’s] discretion, any or all 
parties, witnesses, and other participants may appear at the live hearing virtually, with 
technology enabling participants simultaneously to see  and hear each other.”150 Additionally, the 
preamble states that even if a school does not regularly hold virtual hearings, any party may 
request that the entire hearing, including cross -examination, be held virtually, and the school 
must grant that request.151 The party do es not need to provide a reason for making this 
request.152  
In addition, nothing in the 2020 amendments prohibits schools from holding virtual hearings or 
from having the parties participate in separate locations even if no party makes such a request, particularly in light of the operational challenges posed by the  COVID -19 pandemic.
153 
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) . 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Append ix Section V. 
Question 46: Is a school permitted to limit the questions that may be asked by each party of 
the other party or witnesses ? 
Answer 46: Yes, and in fact the 2020 amendments require certain limitations , whether in a 
hearing or as part of an exchange of written questions at the elementary and secondary school level . Note that the 2020 amendments do not require a hearing at the elementary and secondary 
school level .
154 
Questions must be relevant. More specifically, the  2020 amendments  state that questions about 
the complainant’s prior sexual behavior are not relevant, subject to certain limitations.155 The 
preamble states that any  school may exclude as not relevant  questions that are dupli cative or 
repetitive.156 For more information regarding other limitations on questioning, see Question 48.  
Further, t he 2020 ame ndments state that during cross -examination at the postsecondary school 
level,  “only relevant cross -examination questions and other questions may be asked of a party or 
witness” and the decision- maker must determine the relevance of a question before a party or a 
witness answers.157    
25 
 For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6) . 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section s VIII and IX.  
Question 47 : Are questions and evidence about the complainant’s sexual history relevant?  
Answer 47: The 2020 amendments  state that “questions and evidence about the 
complainant’s sexual predisposition or prior sexual behavior are not relevant, unless such 
questions and evidence about the complainant’s prior sexual behavior are offered to prove that 
someone other than the respondent committed the conduct alleged” or the “questions and 
evidence concern specific incidents of the complainant’s prior sexual behavior with respect to 
the respondent and are offered to prove consent.”158 
The preamble explains that the term “prior sexual behavior” refers to “sexual behavior that is unrelated” to the alleged conduct.
159 The preamble also  addresses questions and evidence about 
sexual behavior after an alleged incident, saying that the regulations do not imply that these kinds of questions are relevant .
160 Whether sexual behavior between the complainant and 
respondent might be relevant to prove consent regarding the particular allegations at issue “depends in part on a [school’s] definition of consent.”
161 Some  schools’ definitions of consent 
“require a verb al expression of consent,” and  other schools’ definitions of consent “inquire 
whether based on circumstances the respondent reasonably understood that consent was 
present (or absent).”162  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6) . 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section  IX. 
Question 48 : Can cross- examination include questions about an individual’s medical or 
mental -health records?  
Answer 48: Questions that seek information about any party’s medical, psychological, and 
similar records are not permitted unless the party has given written consent.163 Questions about 
other records protected by  a legally recognized privilege are also not permitted unless waived by 
the party .164 The preamble also explains that “[ schools ] (and, as applicable, parties ) must follow 
relevant State and F ederal health care privacy laws  throughout the grievance process .”165  
These protections apply throughout the investigation as well as the hearing.  
Question 49 : May a school put measures in place to protect the well -being of the parties 
during the cross -examination ? 
Answer 49: Yes. For example, the preamble notes that a school is permitted to grant breaks 
to the parties during a live hearing .166 Also , as discussed in Question 46, the 2020 amendments 
require a pause in the cross -examination process each time before a party or witness answers a 
cross- examination question in order for the decision- maker to determine if the question is 
relevant.167 The preamble explains that this is to help ensure that the cross -examination includes   
26 
 only relevant questions and that the pace of the cross -examination does not place undue 
pressure on a party or a witness to answer immediately.168 
Question 50 : How d o the 2020 amendments address the manner in which a decision -maker 
should evaluate answers to cross -examination questions?  
Answer 50: The 2020 amendments do not require that answers to cross -examination 
questions “be in linear or sequential formats” or that any party “must recall details with certain 
levels of specificity.”169 The preamble adds that the 2020 amendments “protect against a par ty 
being unfairly judged due to inability to recount each specific detail of an incident in sequence” because “decision -makers must be trained to serve impartially without prejudging the facts.”
170  
For examples of language related to this issue, please see  Q&A Appendix Section VIII. 
 
[The strike -through below indicates that Q&A s 51-54 are no longer applicable in light of Victim 
Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona, No. 1:20- cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 
2021) , appeals pending (1st Cir.) ]  OCR has added Q&A s A-D below to provide postsecondary 
schools with additional updated information in light of the court's decision.     
Question 51 : What are the consequences if a party or witness does not participate in a live 
hearing or submit to cross -examination?  
Answer 51:  Postsecondary schools, which are required to provide for cross -examination at a 
live hearing, should keep in mind that, under the 2020 amendments, if a party or a witness does 
not submit to cross -examination, that individual’s statements cannot be relied on by the 
decision -maker in determining whether the respondent engaged in the alleged sexual 
harassment.171  
The preamble explains that even if a party is unable to participate at a hearing “due to death or 
post -investigation disability,” the school’s decision -makers may not rely on any statements from 
that individual in their decision- making about whether the respondent has committed sexual 
harassment in violation of  school policy.172 As discussed in Question 37,  a school has “discretion 
to apply limited extensions of time frames during the grievance process for good cause, which 
may include, for example, a temporary postponement of a hearing to accommodate a 
disability.”173 
The decision -maker also may not draw any  inference solely from a decision of a party or witness 
not to participate at the hearing, including not to submit to cross -examination.174 This means, for 
example, that the decision- maker may not make any decisions about a party’s credibility based 
solely on their decision not to participate in a hearing or submit to cross -examination.     
27 
 Note that “police reports, medical reports and other documents and records may not be relied 
on to the extent they contain the statements of a party or witness who has not submitted to 
cross- examination.”175 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section X.  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i) . 
Question 52 : May a decision -maker at a postsecondary school rely on non -statement 
evidence, such as photographs or video images, if a party or witness does not 
submit to cross -examination?  
Answer 52: Yes. Although a decision -maker may not rely on any statement of a party or 
witness who does not submit to cross -examination, other relevant evidence can still be 
considered to determine whether the respondent i s responsible for the alleged sexual 
harassment.176 The preamble explains that the term “statements” should be interpreted using 
its ordinary meaning, but does not include evidence, such as a videos of the incident itself, where 
the party or witness has no intent to make an assertion regarding whether or not the alleged 
harassment occurred or discuss factual details related to the alleged harassment, or where the 
evidence does not contain such factual assertions by the party or witness.177 Thus, the decision-
maker may rely on non -statement evidence related to the alleged prohibited conduct that is in 
the record, such as photographs or video images showing the underlying incident.178  
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section X.  
Question 53 : May a decision -maker at a postsecondary school rely on statements of  a party, 
such as texts or emails, even if the party does not submit to cross -examination?  
Answer 53: It depends. The decision- maker may consider certain types of statements by a 
party where the statement itself is the alleged harassment, even if the party does not submit to 
cross- examination. For example, the decision -maker may consider a text message, email, or 
audio or video recording created and sent by a respondent as a form of alleged sexual harassment 
even if the respondent does not submit to cross -examination.179 Similarly, if  a complainant 
alleges that the respondent said, “I’ll give you a higher grade in my class if you go on a date with 
me,” the decision -maker may rely on the complainant’s testimony that the respondent said those 
words even if the respondent does not submit to cross -examination.180 
In these types of situations, the decision- maker is evaluating whether the statement was made 
or sent. In second example above, the complainant’s testimony was about the fact that the 
respondent made the offer, and not about what the respondent intended or whether the 
respondent took an additional action based on the statement, such as changing the student’s 
grade after a date.181    
28 
 In contrast, evidence  in which a party or witness  comments on the interaction between the 
parties  without engaging in harassment  (e.g. , email or text exchanges leading up to the alleged 
harassment or an admission, an apology , or other  comment about the alleged harassment), 
would be considered statements that could not be considered unless the party or witness is cross -
examined.182  
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section X.  
Question 54 : May a decision -maker rely on a video, text message , or other piece of evidence 
that includes statements by multiple parties or witnes ses if some of them do not 
submit to cross -examination?  
Answer 54: Yes. The preamble explains that in such cases, even if a party or witness in a text 
message, email, or video does not submit to cross -examination, the decision-m aker may still rely 
on the statements by other people in that text message, email, or video who do submit to cross -
examination.183 
OCR provides the following q uestions and answers about the effect Victim Rights Law 
Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20 -cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), 
appeals pending (1st Cir.), which struck down a part of the 2020 amendments :    
Question A:  May a decision -maker at a postsecondary school consider statements made by 
a party or witness who does not submit to cross -examination at a live hearing?   
Answer A:  Yes. A  federal court vacated regulatory language in the  2020 amendments that 
prohibited decision- makers in postsecondary schools  from relying on statements by individuals 
who did not submit to cross -examination during a live hearing . As a result , postsecondary schools 
are no longer subject to this language . The Department will continue to enforce all other parts of 
the regulation, including other requirements in the same section of the regulation (34 C.F.R. 
§ 106.45(b)(6)(i)) that were not vacated , including the regulatory language in 34 § 106.45(b)(6)(i) 
stating that the decision -maker may not draw any inference solely from a decision of a party or 
witness not to participate at the hearing, including not to submit to cross -examination. This 
means, for example, that the decision -maker may not make any decisions about a party’s 
credibility based solely on their decision not to participate in a hearing or submit to cross -
examination.  
For additional information, please see OCR’s August 24, 2021, letter to students, educators, and 
other stakeholders  r egarding the court’s decision in VRLC v. Cardona.  
Question B:  When did this court -ordered change in the regulation take effect? 
Answer B:  The court’s decision was issued July 28, 2021, and took effect immediately. This 
means that it applies to Title IX grievance processes initiated  by postsecondary schools after July 
28, 2021, regardless of when the alleged sexual harassment occurred.  It also means that OCR will   
29 
 not enforce this restriction as to any Title IX grievance processes initiated by postsecondary 
schools after July 28, 2021.  
Question C:  What types of s tatements made by a party or witness who does not submit to 
cross -examination at a live hearing may a decision -maker at a postsecondary 
school consider? 
Answer C:  In reaching a determination regarding responsibility in a Title IX grievance process, 
a decision -maker at a postsecondary school may consider statements made by parties or 
witnesses  that are otherwise permitted under the regulations , even if those parties or witnesses 
do not submit to cross -examination at the live hearing.  
For example, a decision -maker at a postsecondary school may consider statements made by the 
parties and witnesses during the investigation. A decision- maker at a postsecondary school may 
also consider emails or text exchanges between the parties leading up to the alleged sex ual 
harassment  and statements about the alleged sexual harassment  that satisfy the regulation’s 
relevance rules, regardless of whether the parties or witnesses submit to cross -examination at 
the live hearing . Additionally, a decision -maker at a postseconda ry school may consider police 
reports, Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner documents, medical reports, and other documents that 
satisfy the regulation’s relevance rules even if those documents contain statements of a party or witness who is not cross -examined at  the live hearing.  
Question D:  Despite the court’s decision, may a postsecondary school choose to maintain the 
prohibition on considering statements made by a party or witness who does not submit to cross -examination at a live hearing as part of its Title IX grievance 
process?  
Answer D:  No. The 2020 amendments at 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(ii) require “an objective 
evaluation of all relevant evidence.” To the extent that statements made by a party or witness who does not submit to cross -examination at a live hearing satisfy the regulation’s relevance 
rules , they must be considered in any postsecondary school’s Title IX grievance process that is 
initiated  after July 28, 2021.  
Question 55: May a decision -maker rely on the statements of  a party or witness who submits 
to cross -examination, but does not answer questions posed by the decision-
maker?  
Answer 55: Yes. The preamble explains that cross -examination differs from questions posed 
by a neutral fact- finder and that if a party or witness submits to cross -examination  by a party’s 
advisor, but does not answer a question posed by the decision- maker, the decision -maker may  
still rely on all of that person’s statements.
184 The preamble also explains that “ the decision-
maker still may not draw any inference about the party’s credibility in making the responsibility   
30 
 determination based solely on a party’s refusal to answer ques tions posted by the decision-
maker” because 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i)  states that no inference may be drawn based on the 
refusal to answer cross -examination or other questions .185 
XIII. Standard of Proof  
Question 56 : What standard of proof must a school use when deciding whether a respondent 
is responsible for committing sexual harassment?  
Answer 56: Under the 2020 amendments, a  school’s grievance process must state whether 
the standard of evidence or proof to be used to determine responsibility is the preponderance - 
of-the- evidence standard or the cl ear-and-convincing- evidence standard.186 The preamble 
explains that the preponderance -of-the- evidence standard means the decision- maker must 
determine whether alleged facts are  more likely than not to be true.187 It also explains that the 
clear -and-convincing- evidence standard means the decision- maker must determine whether it is 
“highly probable” that the alleged facts are true .188  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(vii) . 
Question 57 : May a school use a different standard of proof for formal complaints  of sexual 
harassment involving students and employees?  
Answer 57: No. Regardless of which standard of proof is used, a school must apply the same 
standard of proof  to all formal complaints of sexual harassment  made by a student, employee, 
or faculty member.189 The preamble explains that if a school has a collective bargaining 
agreement in place that requires the school  to use the clear -and- convincing standard for sexual 
harassment investigations  involving employees , it is required under the 2020 amendments to use 
only the clear -and- convincing standard for sexual harassment investigations involving students 
as well .190 In those cases, the preamble indicates that the school may  work cooperatively wi th its 
employee unions to renegotiate the standard of proof used in employee sexual harassment investigations.
191  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(vii) . 
XIV. Informal Resolution  
Question 58:  May a school offer an informal resolution process, including restorative justice 
or mediation , as a way to resolve a sexual harassment complaint?  
Answer 58: Yes. The 2020 amendments  state that a school is not required to offer an informal 
resolution process but may facilitate an informal resolution process  at any time prior to reaching 
a determination regarding responsibility, subject to  certain  conditions.192 A school is not 
permitte d to offer or facilitate an informal resolution process to resolve allegations that an 
employee sexually harassed a student.193   
31 
 The 2020 amendments explain that they leave the term “informal process” undefined to allow a 
school the discretion to adopt whatever process best serves the needs of its community.194 The 
amendments do not require that the parties interact directly with each other as part of an informal resolution process; mediations are often conducted with the parties in separate rooms 
and the medi ator conversing with each party separately.
195 The parties’ participation in 
mediation or restorative justice, if offered, should remain a decision for each individual party to make in a particular case , and neither party should be pressured to participate in the process . 
Schools may exercise discretion to make fact -specific determinations about whether to offer 
informal resolution in response to a complaint. The Department will not require the parties to 
attempt mediation in its enforcement of Title IX.
196  
For additional information , please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(9) . 
For examples of language related to this issue, please see Q&A Appendix Section XV . 
Question 59 : If a school chooses to offer an informal resolution process, are there any requirements under Title IX?  
Answer 59: Yes. If a school chooses to offer an informal process, the 2020 amendments 
require that the school obtains the complainant’s and the respondent’s voluntary, written 
consent before using any kind of “informal resolution” process, such as mediatio n or restorative 
justice.
197 With the parties’ consent, schools have  the freedom to allow the parties to choose a n 
informal resolution mechanism that best suits their needs.198 If those needs change, however, 
the 2020 amendments also make clear that either party may  withdraw from the informal 
resolution process and resume the formal grievance process at any time prior to agreeing to a resolution.
199  
A school’s discretion to offer an informal resolution process is also limited by the school’s obligation to ensure that all persons who facilitate informal resolutions are free from conflicts of 
interest and bias, and are trained to serve impartially without prejudging the facts at issue.
200 For 
example, schools that choose to offer restorative justice as a means of an informal resolution should ensure that the restorative justice facilitators are well -trained in effective processes.
201 A 
school may use trauma- informed techniques during the informal resolution process.  
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(9) . 
XV. Retaliation  and Amnesty  
Question 60 : What is retaliation, and is it prohibited under the 2020 amendments?  
Answer 60: The 2020 amendments prohibit retaliation.202 Retaliation is defined as 
“[i]ntimidation, threats, coercion, or discrimination, including charges against an individual for 
code of conduct violations that do not involve sex discrimination or sexual harassment, but arise out of the same facts or  circumstances as a report or complaint of sex discrimination, or a report    
32 
 or formal complaint of sexual harassment, for the purposes of interfering with any right or 
privilege secured by [the] Title IX [ statute or regulations ].”203   
For additional information , please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.71 . 
Question 61: May a school discipline a complainant , respondent, or witness for violating the 
school’s COVID -19 or other policy during a reported incident of sexual 
harassment?  
Answer 61: No, unless the school has a policy that always imposes the same punishment for 
violating the COVID- 19 or other policy regardless of the circumstances. The 2020 amendments  
prohibit “charges against an individual for code  of conduct violations that do not involve sex 
discrimination or sexual harassment, but arise out of the same facts or circumstances as a rep ort 
or formal complaint of sexual harassment  [i.e., collateral conduct] , for the purpose of interfering 
with any right or privilege secured by Title IX or [its implementing regulations].”204 
The preamble explains that if a school punishes an individual for violations of other school policies , it will be considered retaliation if the punishment is for the purpose of interfering with 
any right or privilege secured by Title IX.
205 The preamble adds that if a school has a zero -
tolerance policy that always imposes  the same punishment for such conduct regardless of the 
circumstances, imposing that punishment would not be for the purpose of interfering with any 
right or privilege secured by Title IX and thus, would not be considered retaliation.206 
For additional information, please  see 34 C.F.R. § 106.71 . 
Question 62 : Is a school permitted to have an amnesty policy as a way to encourage reporting of sexual harassment?  
Answer 62: Yes. The preamble notes that “[t]he Department is aware that some schools have 
adopted ‘amnesty’ policies designed to encourage students to report sexual harassment.”
207 
Under these policies, “students who report sexual misconduct (whether as a victim or witness) 
will not face charges for school code of conduct violations relating to the sexual misconduct incident (e.g. , underage drinking at the party where the sexual harassment occurred) .”
208 
“Nothing in the [2020 amendments] precludes a [school] from adopting such amnesty policies ,” 
and schools retain broad discretion to adopt such amnesty policies or to otherwise define 
retaliation more broadly than in the regulations .209  
More generally, schools should keep in mind that the 2020 amendments require that a school’s 
Title IX grievance process treat complainants and respondents equitably.210  
Question 63: May a school punish a complainant for filing a complaint if the  decision -maker 
finds that the respondent did not engage in the alleged sexual harassment? 
Answer 63: No t without a finding of bad faith. The 2020 amendments state that “a 
determination regarding responsibility, alone, is not sufficient to conclude that any party made   
33 
 a materially false statement in bad faith.”211 To the contrary, it might be considered retaliation 
for a school to penalize a student for bringing a complaint, depending on the circumstances.212 
However, if a school believes a student made a materially false statement in bad faith in the 
course of a Title IX grievance proceeding, it would not constitute retaliation for a school to charg e 
that individual with a code- of-conduct violation .213  
For additional information , please  see 34 C.F.R. § 106.71 . 
XVI. Forms of Sex Discrimination Other Than Sexual Harassment  as Defined by the 2020 
Ame ndments   
Question 64 :  How should a school respond to complaints alleging sex discrimination that do not include sexual harassment allegations?  
Answer 64:  The 2020 amendments explain that the grievance process required for formal 
sexual  harassment complaints does not apply to complaints alleging  discrimination based on 
pregnancy, different treatment based on sex , or other forms of sex discrimination .
214  
Instead, the 2020 amendments state that schools must respond to these complaints using the 
“prompt and equitable” grievance procedures that schools have been required to adopt and 
publish since 1975, when the original Title IX regulations were issued.215 The 1975 regulations, 
which are still in place today, require schools to have a Title IX C oordinator to receive complaints 
of sex discrimination and require schools to respond promptly and equitably to such 
complaints.216   
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.8(c) . 
Question 65: W hat constitutes a prompt and equitable grievance procedure  under Title IX  for 
responding to complaints of sex discrimination that do not include sexual -
harassment allegations? 
Answer 65: OCR has historically looked to whether and how schools have communicated 
information about their procedures, including where to file complaints, to students, 
parents/caregivers (for elementary and secondary school students), and employees. In addition, 
OCR has considered whether the procedures have provided for adequate, reliable , and impartial 
investigation of complaints; designated and reasonably prompt time frames for the complaint and resolution process; and notice to the parties of the outcome of a complaint.
217 
OCR also has historically explained that a grievance procedure cannot be prompt or equitable 
unless students know it exists, how it works, and how to file a complaint. Thus, the procedures 
should be written in language appropriate to the age of the school’s students, easily understood, 
and widely disseminated.218  
XVII. Religious Exemptions    
34 
 Question 66: Are all schools that receive federal financial assistance required to comply with  
Title IX?  
Answer 66: Title IX does not apply to an educational institution that is controlled by a relig ious 
organization to the extent that application of Title IX would be inconsistent with the religious 
tenets of the organization.219 This religious exemption was in the text of Title IX when it was 
enacted  in 1972.  The religious exemption  does not apply to public schools or to colleges or 
universities run by state or local governments.  
A school may, at its discretion, seek an assurance of a Title IX religious exemption at any time by 
submitting a letter from the highest ranking official of the institution to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights in the Depar tment of Education.
220 The letter must identify the provisions of the 
Title IX regulations that conflict with specific tenets  of the religious organization.221 A religious 
exemption is not a blanket exemption from Title IX, and a school’s religious exemption extends 
only as far as the conflict between the Title IX regulations and the religious tenets of the 
controlling religious organization.222 A school must comply with the Title IX regulations to the 
extent that compliance would not conflict with the tenets of the  controlling religious 
organization.223   
The 2020 amendments state that a school is not required to seek a written ass urance of its 
religious exemption under Title IX before claiming the exemption, and the regulations state that 
a school can invoke a religious exemption after OCR has received a complaint regarding the 
school.224 This is consistent with OCR’s handling of religious exemption requests dating back 
more than two decades . 
For additional information, please see 34 C.F.R. § 106.12 . 
Please visit OCR’s website  for additional information about religious exemptions.  
Question 67: May a student file a complaint with OCR against a school that has obtained an 
assurance of a religious exemption from OCR?  
Answ er 67: Yes. Students may always file a complaint with OCR if they believe their school has 
violated their rights under Title IX, even if OCR has previously provided assurance to the school of a religious exemption under Title IX. After receiving  the complaint, OCR would first evaluate 
whether the allegation is appropriate for investigation. If yes, and if the school has previously 
asserted a religious exemption, then OCR would determine whether the exemption applies to 
the alleged discrimination. If the exemption applies, OCR would dismiss the complaint. If the 
alleged discrimination does not fall within the school’s religious exemption from Title IX, then 
OCR would proceed with the investigation , following OCR’s Case Processing Manual.
225 
 
1 You can read the 2020 amendments, entitled “Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or 
Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,” at 85 Fed. Reg. 30,026 (May 19, 2020), 
   
35 
  
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR- 2020 -05-19/pdf/2020- 10512.pdf . The amendments begin on page 
30,572. The Federal Register notice also includes a preamble, at pages 30,026-30,570 , that clarifies OCR’s 
interpretation of Titl e IX and the Title IX regulations. As discussed above, please note that the preamble itself does 
not have the force and effect of law.  
2 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,063.  
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
5 20 U.S.C. § 1092(f)(6)(A)(v).  
6 NIBRS User Manual at 4 0 (April 15, 2021), https://www.fbi.gov/file -repository/ucr/ucr -2019-1- nibrs -user-manua -
093020.pdf/view .  
7 34 U.S.C. § 12291(a)(10). 
8 Id. § 12291(a)(8).  
9 Id. § 12291(a)(30).  
10 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 (definition of sexual harassment). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,202.  
11 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,174.  
12 Id. 
13 Id. at 30,199.  
14 Id. 
15 Id. 
16 Id. 
17 34 C.F.R. § 106.31.  
18 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,170. See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a)  (definition of sexual harassment).  
19 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,170.  
20 Id.  
21 Id. at 30,169.  
22 Id.  
23 Id. at 30,170.  
24 Id. 
25 Id. 
26 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a). See also 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,196 -98. 
27 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,093. See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(iii).  
28 34 C.F.R. § 106.8(d).  
29 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,201.  
30 Id. at 30,197.  
31 Id. at 30,199 n.875.  
32 Id. at 30,200 n.877.  
33 Id. at 30,200.  
34 Id. at 30,202.  
35 Id.  
36 Id. at 30,203.  
37 Id. at 30,202.  
38 Id. 
39 U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, Letter from Acting Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, 
Kimberly M. Richey, Withdrawing Certain OCR Documents (Aug. 26, 2020), 
https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fr -200826 -letter.pdf . Guidance documents previously issued by the 
Department that have since been withdrawn are available at 
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/frontpage/faq/rr/policyguidance/respolicy.html . Note that these 
guidance documents, even prior to their withdrawal, do  not have the force and effect of law, and are not meant to 
bind the  public or regulated entities in any way.  
40 34 C.F.R. §§ 106.30(a) (definition of actual knowledge), 106.44(a).  
   
36 
  
41 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,109, 30,115.  
42 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a) (definition of actual knowledge).  
43 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,115 -16, 30,120.  
44 Id. at 30,115.  
45 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a) (definition of actual knowledge); 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,043.  
46 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,043.  
47 Id. 
48 Id. 
49 34 C.F.R. §§ 106.8(a), 106.30(a) (definition of actual knowledge).  
50 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,093.  
51 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a)  
52 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,116.  
53 Id. at 30,192.  
54 Id. See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 (a) (defini tion of complainant).  
55 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,192.  
56 Id. at 30,107, 30,115, 30,523.  
57 Id. at 30,107 . 
58 Id. at 30,523.  
59 Id. at 30,107 . 
60 Id. at 30,115, 30,523.  
61 Id. at 30,107.  
62 Id.  
63 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a).  
64 Id. 
65 Id. 
66 Id. 
67 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(i), (b)(7)(ii)(E); 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,274.  
68 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,274.  
69 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(i).  
70 Id. 
71 Id. 
72 Id. § 106.45(b)(1)(vi).  
73 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,275.  
74 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a) (definition of formal complaint).  
75 Id. 
76 Id. 
77 Id. 
78 Id. § 106.6(g); 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,453.  
79 Id. § 106.30(a) (definition of formal complaint).  
80 Id. 
81 Id. 
82 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,138, 30,198 n.869, 30,219 . 
83 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a) (definition of formal complaint).  
84 Id. 
85 34 C.F.R. §§ 106.30 (a) (definition of formal complaint) , 106.44(a).  
86 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,089.  
87 34 C.F.R.  § 106.45(b)(3)(i).  See also 85 Fed. Reg. at  30,199.  
88 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a).  
89 Id. 
90 Id. § 106.45(b)(3)(ii). See also  85 Fed. Reg. at 30,290.  
   
37 
  
91 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,290.  
92 Id. 
93 Id. at 30,187.  
94 See 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v).  
95 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,348 . See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v).  
96 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v).  
97 34 C.F.R.  § 106.45(b)(6)(i). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,348.  
98 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a).  
99 Id. 
100 Id. § 106.30(a) (definition of supportive measures). See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(a).  
101 34 C.F.R. § 106.30(a) (definition of supportive measures).  
102 Id. 
103 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,182.  
104 Id. at 30,401.  
105 Id. at 30,182.  
106 34 C.F.R. § 106.44(c).  
107 Id. 
108 Id. (referencing the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and  
the Americans with Disabilities Act ).  
109 Id. § 106.44(d).  
110 Id. (referencing Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and  the Americans with Disabilities A ct). 
111 Id. § 106.45(b)(1)(iv).  
112 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,259.  
113 Id. 
114 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v).  
115 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,269.  
116 Id. 
117 Id. 
118 Id. 
119 Id. 
120 Id. 
121 Id. 
122 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(v).  
123 Id. 
124 Id. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
125 Id. 
126 Id. § 106.45(b)(6)(ii).  
127 Id. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
128 Id. 
129 Id. 
130 Id. § 106.45(b)(6)(ii).  
131 Id. 
132 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,361.  
133 34 C.F.R. § 106.6(g).  
134 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,453.  
135 Id. at 30,122.  
136 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(1).  
137 Id. § 106.45(b)(5)(iv).  
138 85 Fed. Reg. at 3 0,297.  
139 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
   
38 
  
140 Id. §§ 106.44(a), 106.71. See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,324.   
141 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,360.  These rules would be in addition to any rules required under 34 C.F.R. § 106.45.  
142 Id. at 30,360 . 
143 Id. at 30,361.  
144 Id. at 30,331.  
145 Id. at 30,340.  
146 Id. at 30,319.  See also 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(5)(iv).  
147 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,319, 30,324, 30,331, 30,361.  
148 Id. at 30,320, 30,324, 30,342.  
149 Id. 
150 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
151 Id. See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,324, 30,355- 56. 
152 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
153 85 Fed. Reg. at 30 ,362.  
154 34 C .F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(ii).  
155 Id. 
156 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,361.  
157 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
158 Id. 
159 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,354 n.1355.  
160 Id. 
161 Id. at 30,353.  
162 Id. 
163 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)( 5)(i). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,361, 30,294.  
164 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(x).  
165 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,286.  
166 Id. at 30,323.  
167 Id. at 30,323 -24. 
168 Id. 
169 Id. at 30,323.  
170 Id. 
171 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
172 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,348.  
173 Id. 
174 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i).  
175 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,349.  
176 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,328, 30,345, 30,349, 30,361.  
177 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,328, 30,345, 30,349 , 30,361.  
178 Id. at 30,328, 30,345, 30,349 , 30,361.  
179 Id. at 30,349.  
180 Id.  
181 See, e.g. , id. at 30,142 n.625 (acknowledging that speech, when not protected under the U.S. Constitution, may 
constitute actionable harassment under 34 C.F.R. § 106.30 even when speech is part of the misconduct at issue). 
See also id.  at 30,349.  
182 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,349.  
183 Id. 
184 Id. 
185 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,349 n.1341.  
186 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(vii).  
187 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,386 n.1472, 30,388 n.1480.  
   
39 
  
188 Id. at 30,386 n.1473.  
189 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(vii). See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,378.  
190 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,378.  
191 Id. 
192 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(9).  
193 Id. § 106.45(b)(9)(iii).  
194 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,401.  
195 Id. at 30,403.  
196 Id. at 30,361.  
197 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(9). 
198 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,406.  
199 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(9).  
200 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(i ii). 
201 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,401, 30,403.  
202 34 C.F.R. § 106.71(a).  
203 Id. 
204 Id. 
205 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,536.  
206 Id. 
207 Id. 
208 Id. 
209 Id. 
210 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(1)(i).  
211 Id. § 106.71(b)(2). See also 85 Fed. Reg.  at 30,537.   
212 34 C.F.R. § 106.71(b)(2).  
213 Id. 
214 Id. §§ 106.8(c), 106.45. See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,095, 30,129, 30,471, 30,473.  
215 34 C.F.R.  §§ 106.8(c), 106.45. See also 85 Fed. Reg. at 30,095, 30,129, 30,461, 30,473.  
216 34 C.F.R. §§ 106.8(a)-(c).  
217 U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, Revised Sexual Harassment Guidance: Sexual Harassment 
of Students by School Employees, Other Students, or Third Parties  at 19 -20 (Jan. 19, 2001), 
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/shguide.pdf . This guidance was rescinded in 2020 but remains 
accessible on the Department’s website  for historical reference.  
218 Id. at 20.  
219 20 U.S.C. § 1681(a)(3); 34 C.F.R. § 106.12.  
220 34 C.F.R. § 106.12(b).  
221 Id. 
222 Id. § 106.12(a).  
223 Id. 
224 Id. § 106.12(b).  
225 U.S. Department of Education , Office for Civil Rights Case Processing Manual (Aug. 26, 2020), 
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocrcpm.pdf .    
40 
 Appendix to  
Questions and Answers on the Title IX Regulations on Sexual Harassment (July 2021)  
This Appendix accompanies Questions  and Answers on the Title IX Regulations on Sexual 
Harassment ( July 2021) from the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights. This 
Appendix responds to schools’ requests for examples of Title IX procedures that may be 
adaptable to their own circumstances and helpful in implementing the 2020 amendments to 
the Department’s Title IX regulations.2 Schools that receive federal funds are obligated to 
implement these regulations, with some limited exceptions described in the statute and 
regulations. 
The Appendix includes examples for elementary and secondary schools and postsecondary 
schools. It is not comprehensive but addresses many areas in which questions arise.  
Important notes:  
- Schools may use the example policy language in this Appendix to guide the creation 
of their own policies but are not required to do so. The Department does not 
endorse th ese provisions in particular, nor does it prefer or support these examples 
as compared with others that schools may use.   
- Other than any statutory and regulatory requirements included below, the contents 
of this Appendix do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind 
the public. This Appendix is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding how OCR interprets existing requirements under the law or agency policies .  
- Adoption of one or more of the examples from this Appendix alo ne does not 
demonstrate compliance with Title IX. If OCR investigates a discrimination 
complaint, OCR will make a fact -specific determination regarding whether a school’s 
Title IX policies and procedures, and their implementation , complies with the law.  
- The example policy language does not address policies or procedures that may be 
required to comply with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits sex discrimination in employment. As the 2020 amendments state: “Nothing in [these 
regulations ] may be read in derogation of any individual’s rights under title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq . or any regulations promulgated 
thereunder.” 34 C.F.R. § 106.6(f).  
 
Please also note that this  Appendix focuses on procedures for  addressing reports and 
complaints of sexual harassment, including sexual violence, because the regulations themselves focus on procedures.  
 
2 The Department issued the regulations to implement Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. The 
Department’s current Title IX regulations are in 34 C.F.R. Part 106, which is available at https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi -
bin/retrieveECFR?gp=&SID=f12a46d66326f0c23de5edac094d253d&mc=true&n=pt34.1.106&r=PART&ty=HTML .    
41 
 The examples are excerpted from the policies at a variety of schools across the U nited States , 
and OCR has edited them for readability and consistency.  
*** 
Many of the sections below include multiple examples to illustrate choices that different schools 
have made about communicating their procedures to students and their communities. The 2020 
amendments do not necessarily require the approaches in the examples here and, again, the Department does not endorse these provisions in particular, nor does it prefer or support these 
examples as compared with others that schools may use.   
The 2020 amendments impose some different requirements for elementary and secondary 
schools, as compared to postsecondary schools. In light of this, we have noted where examples 
track requirements for elementary and secondary schools, postsecondary schools, or both. For 
more information on these differences, please see the Title IX Q&A.  
I. Receiving and Responding to Reports of Sexual Harassment  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: When a complaint or report of sexual harassment is made under this 
school’s policy, the Title IX Coordinator (or designee) will: (1) confidentially contact the 
complainant to offer supportive measures, consider the complainant’s wishes with respect to supportive measures, and inform them of the availability of supportive 
measures with or without filing a formal complaint; (2) explain the process for how to 
file a formal complaint; (3) inform the complainant that any report made in good faith 
will not result in discipline; and (4) respect the complainant’s wishes with respect to 
whether to investigate unless the Title IX Coordinator determines it is necessary to 
pursue the complaint in light of a health or safety concern for the community.  
• Example Policy 2: Choosing to make a report, file a formal complaint, and/or meet with 
the Title IX Coordinator after a report or formal complaint has been made, and deciding 
how to proceed, can be a process that unfolds over time.  You do not have to decide 
whether to pursue a formal complaint or to name the other party/ies at the time of the report. Reporting does not mean you wish to pursue a formal complaint—it may mean 
you would like help accessing resources and supportive measures.  You do not have to 
pursue a formal complaint to take advantage of the suppor tive measures available to 
you.   
Example Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The district must respond whenever any District employee has been 
put on actual notice of any sexual harassment or allegations of sexual harassment  as  
   
42 
 defined in this district’s policy. This mandatory obligation is in addition to the child 
abuse mandatory reporting obligation under state law.  
II. Supportive Measures  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: Supportive measures are short -term measures that are designed to 
restore or preserve access to the school’s education program or activity. Examples of supportive measures include counseling, extensions of deadlines or other course -related 
adjustments, modifications of work or class schedules, campus escort services, mutual 
restrictions on contact between the parties, changes in work or housing locations, 
leaves of absence, increased security and monitoring of certain areas of the campus, 
and other similar measures.   
• Example Policy 2 : Supportive measures are available regardless of whether the 
complainant chooses to pursue any action under this school’s policy, including before and after the filing of a formal complaint or where no formal comp laint has been filed. 
Supportive measures are available to the complainant, respondent, and as appropriate, witnesses or other impacted individuals. The Title IX Coordinator will maintain 
consistent contact with the parties to ensure that safety and emotional and physical 
well- being are being addressed. Generally, supportive measures are meant to be short -
term in nature and will be re -evaluated on a periodic basis. To the extent there is a 
continuing need for supportive measures after the conclusion of the resolution process, 
the Title IX Coordinator will work with appropriate school resources to provide 
continued assistance to the parties.  
• Example Policy 3 : Supportive measures are provided based on an individualized 
assessment of the needs of the individual . They may include, but are not limited to: 
facilitating access to medical and counseling services, assistance in arranging the 
rescheduling of exams and assignments, academic support services, assistance in 
requesting long -term academic accommodations if the individual qualifies as an 
individual with a disability, allowing either a complainant or respondent to drop a class in which both parties are enrolled, a mutual “no contact order,” and any other reasonably supportive measure that does not unreasonably  burden the other party’s 
access to education and that serves the goals of this policy.  
• Example Policy 4 : The school will make available supportive measures with or without 
the filing of a formal complaint. These supports will be available to both parties,  free of 
charge. These supports are non- disciplinary and non -punitive individualized services 
designed to offer support without being unreasonably burdensome. They are meant to 
restore access to education, protect student and employee safety, and/or deter future 
acts of sexual harassment. Supportive measures are temporary and flexible, based on   
43 
 the needs of the individual and may include counseling, extensions of deadlines or 
course -related adjustments, restrictions on contact between parties (must be appli ed 
equally to both parties), leaves of absence, and increased security and monitoring of certain areas of the school.  
III. Investigations  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: Once a formal Title IX complaint is filed, an investigator will be assigned and the parties will be treated equitably, including in the provision of supportive measures and remedies. They will receive notice of the specifics of the 
allegations as known, and as any arise during  the investigation. The investigator will be 
unbiased and free from conflicts of interest and will objectively review the complaint, any evidence, and any information from witnesses, expert witnesses, and the parties. If 
the investigator conducts interviews, the parties will be provided time to prepare and 
will receive notice of the time/date/location/participants/purpose for the interviews.  
• Example Policy 2: Upon receipt of a formal Title IX complaint, the Title IX Coordinator 
will appoint an Investigator to investigate the allegations subject to the formal grievance 
process. The investigation may include, among other things, interviewing the 
complainant, the respondent, and any witnesses; reviewing law enforcement 
investigation documents if applicable; reviewing relevant student or employment files 
(preserving confidentiality wherever necessary); and gathering and examining other 
relevant documents, social media, and evidence.  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The I nvestigator will attempt to collect all relevant information and 
evidence. While the Investigator will have the burden of gathering evidence, it is crucial that the parties present evidence and identify witnesses to the Investigator so that they 
may be con sidered during the investigation. While all evidence gathered during the 
investigative process and obtained through the exchange of written questions will be considered, the decision -maker may in their discretion grant lesser weight to last -
minute information or evidence introduced through the exchange of written questions that was not previously presented for investigation by the Investigator.  
• Example Policy 2: The decision -maker will facilitate a written question and answer 
period between the parties. Each party may submit their written questions for the other party and witnesses to the decision- maker for review. The questions must be relevant to 
the case. The decision -maker will determine if the questions submitted are relevant and 
will then forward the relevant questions to the other party or witnesses for a response. 
The decision -maker can then review all the responses, determine what is rele vant or not   
44 
 relevant, and issue a decision as to whether the Respondent is responsible for the 
alleged sexual harassment.  
IV. The Role of the Advisor  
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools3 
• Example Policy 1: The role of the advisor is narrow in scope:  the advisor may attend any 
interview or meeting connected with the grievance process that the party whom they 
are advising is invited to attend, but the advisor may not actively participate in 
interviews and may not serve as a proxy for the party. The advisor may attend the 
hearing and may conduct cross -examination of the other party and any witnesses at the 
hearing; otherwise, the advisor may not actively participate in the hearing.  
• Example Policy 2: During meetings and hearings, the advisor may talk quie tly with the 
student or pass notes in a non- disruptive manner. The advisor may not intervene in 
meetings with the school. In addition, while advisors may provide guidance and 
assistance throughout the process, all written submissions must be authored by th e 
student. 
• Example Policy 3: The advisor may provide advice and consultation to the parties or parties’ witnesses outside of the conduct of the live hearing to assist parties in handling the formal resolution process.  
V. The Live Hearing Process  
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools4  
A. Before the hearing  
• Example Policy 1: In order to promote a fair and expeditious hearing, the parties and 
their advisors will attend a pre -hearing conference with the decision- maker. The pre -
hearing conference assures t hat the parties and their advisors understand the hearing 
process and allows for significant issues to be addressed in advance of the hearing.  
 
 
3 While elementary and secondary schools may choose to permi t parties to have an advisor, the 2020 
amendments only require an advisor at the postsecondary school level due to the cross -examination 
requirement. See the Question 41 in the Q&A for more information. 
4 While elementary and secondary schools may choose to use a live hearing, the 2020 amendments only 
require a live hearing with cross -examination at the postsecondary school level. See Section XII in the 
Q&A for more information.    
45 
 B. Hearing format  
• Example Policy 1: While the hearing is not intended to be a repeat of the investigation, 
the parties will be provided with an equal opportunity for their advisors to conduct 
cross- examination of the other party and of relevant witnesses. A typical hearing may 
include: brief opening remarks by the decision- maker; questions posed by the decision-
maker to one or both of the parties; cross -examination by either party’s advisor of the 
other party and relevant witnesses; and questions posed by the decision -maker to any 
relevant witnesses.   
• Example Policy 2: The parties and witnesses w ill address only the decision -maker, and 
not each other. Only the decision- maker and the parties’ advisors may question 
witnesses and parties.  
• Example Policy 3: When it is an individual’s turn to appear before the decision- maker, 
that person will appear separately before the panel and may bring notes for their 
reference. The decision -maker may ask any individual for a copy of or to inspect their 
notes. The complainant and respondent may be accompanied by or may otherwise be in 
contact with their advisor at all times. If the hearing is conducted wholly or partially 
through video conference, an administrator will ensure that each party has the 
opportunity to appear before or speak directly to the hearing panel and to appropriately 
participate in the questioning process.  
• Example Policy 4: At the request of either party, the decision- maker will allow the 
parties and/or witnesses to be visually separated during the hearing. This may include, 
but is not limited to, the use of videoconference and/or any other appropriate 
technology. To assess credibility, the decision- maker must have sufficient access to the 
complainant, respondent, and any witnesses presenting information; if the decision-
maker is sighted, then the decision- maker must be able to see them.  
• Example Po licy 5: Parties will be able to see and hear (or, if deaf or hard of hearing, to 
access through auxiliary aids or services) all questioning and testimony at the hearing, if 
they choose to. Witnesses (other than the parties) will attend the hearing only for  their 
own testimony.  
• Example Policy 6: The school will ensure that students with disabilities have an equal 
opportunity to participate in, and benefit from the school’s Title IX grievance process, 
consistent with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The 
school will also ensure that English learner students can participate meaningfully and 
equally in the school’s Title IX grievance process, as required by Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974.    
46 
 C. Evidence  
• Example Policy 1: The hearing is an opportunity for the parties to address the decision -
maker. The parties may address any information in the investigative report, submit 
supplemental statements in response to the investigative report or, at the time of any 
sanction, provide verbal impact and mitigation statements. The school will make all 
evidence gathered available to the parties at the hearing to give each party equal 
opportunity to refer to such evidence during the hearing, including for purposes of 
cross- examination. In reaching a determination, the decision -maker will meet with the 
complainant, respondent, investigator, and any relevant witnesses, but the decision-
maker may not conduct their own investigation.  
• Example Pol icy 2: The parties will have the opportunity to present the evidence they 
submitted, subject to any exclusions determined by the decision- maker. Generally, the 
parties may not introduce evidence, including witness testimony, at the hearing that 
they did not identify during the pre -hearing process. However, the decision -maker has 
discretion to accept or exclude additional evidence presented at the hearing. In 
addition, the parties are expected not to spend time on undisputed facts or evidence 
that would be duplicative. 
• Example Policy 3: Courtroom rules of evidence and procedure will not apply. The 
decision -maker will generally consider, that is rely on, all evidence that they determine 
to be relevant and reliable. Throughout the hearing, the decision- maker will: (1) Exclude 
evidence including witness testimony that is, for example, irrelevant in light of the policy 
violation(s) charged, relevant only to issues not in dispute, or unduly repetitive, and will 
require rephrasing of questions that violate the rules  of conduct; (2) Decide any 
procedural issues for the hearing; and/or (3) Make any other determinations necessary 
to promote an orderly, productive, and fair hearing that complies with the rules of 
conduct.  
D. Confidentiality  
• Example Policy 1: All live hearings will be closed to the public and witnesses will be 
present only during their testimony. For live hearings that use technology, the decision-
maker shall ensure that appropriate protections are in place to maintain confidentiality.  
• Example Policy 2:  The hearing is a closed proceeding and is not open to the public. All 
participants involved in a hearing are expected to respect the seriousness of the matter 
and the privacy of the individuals involved. The school’s expectation of privacy during 
the hearing process should not be understood to limit any legal rights of the parties 
during or after the resolution. The school may not, by federal law, prohibit the   
47 
 complainant from disclosing the final outcome of a formal complaint process (after any 
appeals are concluded). All other conditions for disclosure of hearing records and 
outcomes are governed by the school’s obligations under the Family Educational Rights 
and Privacy Act (FERPA), any other applicable privacy laws, and professional ethical 
standards. 
E. Decision -makers asking questions of the parties or witnesses  
• Example Policy 1: The decision -maker may question the parties and witnesses, but they 
may refuse to respond.  
VI. Behavior During the Live Hearing/Rules of Decorum 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The school will require all parties, advisors, and witnesses to maintain 
appropriate decorum throughout the live hearing. Participants at the live hearing are 
expected to abide by the decision- maker’s directions and  determinations, maintain 
civility, and avoid emotional outbursts and raised voices. Repeated violations of 
appropriate decorum will result in a break in the live hearing, the length of which will be 
determined by the decision- maker. The decision -maker res erves the right to appoint a 
different advisor to conduct cross -examination on behalf of a party after an advisor’s 
repeated violations of appropriate decorum or other rules related to the conduct of the 
live hearing.  
• Example Policy 2: The hearing will be conducted in a respectful manner that promotes 
fairness and accurate factfinding and that complies with the rules of conduct.  
• Example Policy 3: The school (including any official acting on behalf of the school such as 
an investigator or a decision -maker) h as the right at all times to determine what 
constitutes appropriate behavior on the part of an advisor and to take appropriate steps 
to ensure compliance with this policy.  
• Example Policy 4: Parties and advisors may take no action at the hearing that a reas onable person would see as intended to intimidate that person (whether party, 
witness, or official) into not participating in the process or meaningfully modifying their 
participation in the process.    
48 
 VII. Protecting the Well -Being of the Parties During the Live 
Hearing/Investigation 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: Each participating individual will have access to a private room for the 
duration of the hearing if the hearing is in person and may choose to participate in the 
proceedings via video conference.  
• Example Policy 2: The decision -maker will discuss measures available to protect the 
well- being of parties and witnesses at the hearing. These may include, for example, use 
of lived names and pronouns during the hearing, including names appearing on a 
screen; a party’s right to have their support person available to them at all times during 
the hearing (in addition to their advisor); and a hearing participant’s ability to request a 
break during the hearing, except when a question is pending.  
Example Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: To the greatest extent possible, and subject to Title IX, the school will 
make reasonable accommodations in an investigation to avoid potential re -
traumatization of a child and to avoid any potential interference with an investigation by 
the Department of Child and Family Services or a law enforcement agency.  
• Example Policy 2: The school will ensure that students with disabilities have an equal 
opportunity to participate in, and benefit from the school’s Title IX grievance process, 
consistent with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The 
school will also ensure that English learner students can participate meaningfully and 
equally in the school’s Title IX grievance process, as required by Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974.  
VIII. Th e Cross -Examination Process  
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  
A. Explaining  Cross -Examination  
• Example Policy 1: The parties’ advisors will have the opportunity to cross examine the 
other party (and witnesses, if any). Such cross -examination must be conducted directly, 
orally, and in real time by the party’s advisor and never by a party personally.  
• Example Policy 2: Each party’s advisor may pose relevant questions to the opposing 
party and witnesses (including the Investigative Team).  
• Example Policy 3: Each party will prepare their questions, including any follow -up 
questions, for  the other party and witnesses, and will provide them to their advisor. The   
49 
 advisor will ask the questions as the party has provided them, and may not ask 
questions that the advisor themselves have developed without their party.  
• Example Policy 4: The role of the advisor at the live hearing is to conduct cross -
examination on behalf of a party. The advisor is not to represent a party, but only to 
relay the party’s cross -examination questions that the party wishes to have asked of the 
other party and witnesses . Advisors may not raise objections or make statements or 
arguments during the live hearing.  
B. Relevant questions only/Decision- maker reviews all questions  
• Example Policy 1: Only relevant questions may be asked of a party or witness. Before a 
complainant, re spondent, or witness responds to a question, the decision -maker will 
first determine whether the question is relevant and explain any decision to exclude a 
question as not relevant.   
• Example Policy 2: When a party’s advisor is asking questions of the other  party or a 
witness, the decision- maker will determine whether each question is relevant before 
the party or witness answers it, will exclude any that are not relevant or unduly 
repetitive, and will require rephrasing of any questions that violate the rules of conduct. 
If the decision- maker determines that a question should be excluded as not relevant, 
they will explain their reasoning.  
• Example Policy 3: Only relevant cross -examination questions and follow -up questions, 
including those that challenge credibility, may be asked. Before a complainant, 
respondent, or witness answers a cross -examination or other question, the decision-
maker first must determine whether the question is relevant or cumulative and must 
explain any decision to exclude a question that is not relevant or is cumulative.  
IX. Res trictions on Considering a Complainant’s or Respondent’s Sexual History  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The investigator will not, as a general rule, consider the sexual history 
of a complainant or respondent. However, in limited circumstances, sexual history may 
be directly relevant to the investigation. As to complainants: While the inves tigator will 
never assume that a past sexual relationship between the parties means the 
complainant consented to the specific conduct under investigation, evidence of how the 
parties communicated consent in past consensual encounters may help the investiga tor 
understand whether the respondent reasonably believed consent was given during the 
encounter under investigation. Further, evidence of specific past sexual encounters may 
be relevant to whether someone other than respondent was the source of relevant 
physical evidence. As to respondents: Sexual history of a respondent might be relevant   
50 
 to show a pattern of behavior by respondent or resolve another issue of importance in 
the investigation. Sexual history evidence that is being proffered to show a party’s  
reputation or character will never be considered relevant on its own.  
• Example Policy 2: An individual’s character or reputation with respect to other sexual 
activity is not relevant and will not be considered as evidence. Similarly, an individual’s 
prior or subsequent sexual activity is typically not relevant and will only be considered 
as evidence under limited circumstances. For example, prior sexual history may be 
relevant to explain the presence of a physical injury or to help resolve other quest ions 
raised in the investigation. It may also be relevant to show that someone other than the 
respondent committed the conduct alleged by the complainant. The investigator will 
determine the relevance of this information, and both parties will be informed in writing 
if evidence of prior sexual history is deemed relevant.  
• Example Policy 3: Where the parties have a prior sexual relationship and the existence 
of consent is at issue, the sexual history between the parties may be relevant to help 
understand the manner and nature of communications between the parties and the 
context of the relationship, which may have bearing on whether consent was sought 
and given during the incident in question. Even in the context of a relationship, 
however, consent to one sexu al act does not, by itself, constitute consent to another 
sexual act; in addition, consent on one occasion does not, by itself, constitute consent 
on a subsequent occasion. The investigator will determine the relevance of this 
information and both parties will be informed if evidence of prior sexual history is 
deemed relevant.  
X. S ituations in Which a Party or Witness Does Not Participate in a Live 
Hearing or in Cross- examination  
Please note:  A federal district court order issued on July 28, 2021,5  set aside  the part of the 
2020 amendments that states:  “If a party or witness does not submit to cross -examination at 
the live hearing, the decision- maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness 
in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i). The strike -
through below indicates that statements in this document contained in Example Policies 1, 3, 
and 4 in this section may not be relied upon in light of Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. 
Cardona, No. 1:20- cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st 
Cir.). 
Example Policies Used by Postsecondary Schools  
 
5 Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona, No. 1:20 -cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals 
pending (1st Cir.).    
51 
 • Example Policy 1: If the complainant, the respondent, or a witness informs the school 
that they will not attend the hearing (or will attend but refuse to be cross -examined),  
the school’s Title IX Coordinator may determine that the hearing may still proceed. The 
decision -maker may not, however:  (a) rely on any statement or information provided by 
that non- participating individual in reaching a determination regarding responsibility; or 
(b) draw any adverse inference in reaching a determination regarding responsibility 
based solely on the individual’s absence from the hearing (or their refusal to be cross -
examined).   
• Example Policy 2: Neit her the complainant nor the respondent is required to participate 
in the resolution process outlined in these procedures. The school will not draw any  
adverse inferences from a complainant’s or respondent’s decision not to participate or 
to remain silent during the process. An investigator or decision -maker, in the 
investigation or the hearing respectively, will reach findings and conclusions based on 
the information available.  
• Example Policy 3: If a party does not submit to cross -examination, the decision -maker 
cannot rely on any prior statements made by that party in reaching a determination 
regarding responsibility, but may reach a determination regarding responsibility based 
on evidence that does not constitute a statement by that party. The decision- maker may 
also consider evidence created by the party where the evidence itself constituted the 
alleged prohibited conduct. Such evidence may include, by way of example but not 
limitation, text messages, e -mails, social media postings, audio or video recordings, or 
other documents or digital media created and sent by a party as a form of alleged sexual 
harassment, or as part of an alleged course of conduct that constitutes stalking. The 
decision -maker cannot draw an inference about the responsibility for a po licy violation 
based solely on a party’s absence from the hearing or refusal to answer cross -
examination or other questions.  
• Example Policy 4: A statement is a person’s intent to make factual assertions, including 
evidence that contains a person’s statement(s). Party or witness statements, police 
reports, Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) reports, medical reports, and other 
records may not be relied upon in making a final determination after the completion of 
a live hearing to the extent that they contain statements of a party or witness who has 
not submitted to cross -examination. However, the decision -maker cannot draw any 
inference about the determination regarding responsibility based solely on a party’s or 
witness’s absence from the live hearing or their refusal to answer cross -examination 
questions. 
XI. Pr esumptions about Complainants, Respondents , and Witnesses    
52 
 Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The school presumes that reports of prohibited conduct are made 
in good faith. A finding that the alleged behavior does not constitute a violation of 
this school’s policy or that there is insufficient evidence to establish that the alleged 
conduct occurred as reported does not mean that the report was made in bad faith.  
• Example Policy 2: All formal sexual misconduct complaints are assumed to be made 
in good faith. However, if the evidence establishes that the formal complaint was 
intentionally falsely made, corrective/disciplinary action may be taken, up to and 
including suspension, expulsion, or termination. This does not include allegations 
that are made in good faith but are ultimately shown to be erroneous or do not 
result in a policy violation determination.  
• Example Policy 3: The respondent is presumed to be not responsible for the alleged 
conduct until a determination regarding responsibility is made by the decision- 
maker.  
• Example Policy 4: An individual’s status as a respondent will not be considered a 
negative factor during consideration of the grievance. Respondents are entitled to, 
and will receive the benefit of, a presumption that they are not responsible for the 
alleged conduct until the grievance process concludes and a determination 
regarding responsibility is issued. Similarly, credibility determinations will not be 
based on a person’s status as a complainant, respondent, or witness.  
XII. D etermination Regarding Responsibility  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The school will review the evidence provided by all parties and will 
make a final determination of responsibility after the investigation. The decision -maker 
will not be the Title IX Coordinator, the investigator, or any other individual who may 
have a  conflict of interest. The final determination will be provided to the parties at the 
same time, with appeal rights provided. It will explain if any policies were violated, the steps and methods taken to investigate, the findings of the investigation, conc lusions 
about the findings, the ultimate determination and the reasons for it, any disciplinary sanctions that will be imposed on the respondent, and any remedies available to the 
complainant to restore or preserve equal access.  
• Example Policy 2: The deci sion-maker will issue a written determination following the 
review of evidence. The written determination will include: (1) identification of allegations potentially constituting sexual harassment as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 106.30; 
(2) a description of the procedural steps taken from the receipt of the complaint   
53 
 through the determination, including any notifications to the parties, interviews with 
parties and witnesses, site visits, and methods used to gather evidence; (3) findings of 
fact supporting the determination , conclusions regarding the application of this formal 
grievance process to the facts; (4) a statement of, and rationale for, the result as to each allegation, including any determination regarding responsibility, any disciplinary 
sanctions the decision -maker imposed on the respondent that directly relate to the 
complainant , and whether remedies designed to restore or preserve equal access to the 
school’s education program or activity will be provided to the complainant; and (5) 
procedures and per missible bases for the parties to appeal the determination. The 
written determination will be provided to the parties simultaneously. Remedies and supportive measures that do not impact the respondent should not be disclosed in the 
written determination; rather the determination should simply state that remedies will 
be provided to the complainant.  
XIII. Sanctions and Remedies  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: The school will take reasonable step s to address any violations of this 
policy and to restore or preserve equal access to the school’s education programs or 
activities. Sanctions for a finding of responsibility depend upon the nature and gravity of 
the misconduct, any record of prior discipl ine for similar violations, or both. The range of 
potential sanctions and corrective actions that may be imposed on a student includes, but is not limited to the following: [list of possible sanctions decided on by the school].  
• Example Policy 2: When a respondent is found responsible for the prohibited behavior 
as alleged, sanctions are based on the severity and circumstances of the behavior. 
Disciplinary actions or consequences can range from a conference with the respondent 
and a school official through suspension or expulsion. When a respondent is found 
responsible for the prohibited behavior as alleged, remedies must be provided to the 
complainant. Remedies are designed to maintain the complainant’s equal access to 
education and may include supportive m easures or remedies that are punitive or would 
pose a burden to the respondent.  
• Example Policy 3: Whatever the outcome of the investigation, hearing, or appeal, the complainant and respondent may request ongoing or additional supportive measures. 
Ongoing supportive measures that do not unreasonably burden a party may be 
considered and provided even if the respondent is found not responsible.  
• Example Policy 4: The role of the Title IX Coordinator following the receipt of the written 
determination from the decision -maker is to facilitate the imposition of sanctions, if any, 
the provision of remedies, if any, and to otherwise complete the formal resolution process. The appropriate school official, after consultation with the Title IX Coordinator,   
54 
 will determin e the sanctions imposed and remedies provided, if any. The Title IX 
Coordinator must provide written notice to the parties simultaneously. The school must 
disclose to the complainant the sanctions imposed on the respondent that directly 
relate to the complainant when such disclosure is necessary to ensure equal access to 
the school’s education program or activity.  
• Example Policy 5: For students with disabilities: If a decision -maker has determined that 
the respondent has engaged in sexual harassment and prior to consideration of imposing a long -term suspension, reassignment, or recommendation for expulsion, the 
following shall occur, and timelines will be extended accordingly: (1) For any student with an Individualized Education Program (IEP), or that a school has knowledge may be a 
child with a disability, the decision -maker will make a referral to the school to conduct a 
manifestation determination review (MDR). The MDR team meeting shall convene as soon as reasonably possible and make available to the dec ision -maker the MDR decision 
and written rationale in no later than ten school days; (2) For any student with a disability covered by Section 504, the decision- maker will make a referral to have a 
knowledgeable committee convene a Section 504 Causality Rev iew. The causality review 
meeting shall convene as soon as reasonably possible and make available to the 
decision -maker the causality review decision and written rationale in no later than ten 
school days; (3) Before a student with a disability is suspende d, reassigned, or 
recommended for expulsion, the principal of the school will consult with the student’s 
case manager, review the student’s IEP, and take into account any special circumstances regarding the student. The IEP team will consider the parents’ views and any preference 
for the reassignment location along with any location proposed by school staff at the 
meeting. It is the duty of the IEP team at its meeting to discuss, propose, and decide 
upon the educational placement, consistent with the disciplinary decision. Accordingly, 
the IEP team will consider the views of all members, including the parents, at the 
meeting. 
XIV. Appeals  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: Each party may appeal (1) the dismissal of a formal complaint or any 
included allegations and/or (2) a determination regarding responsibility. To appeal, a party must submit their written appeal within five business days of being notified of the 
decision, including the grounds for the appeal. The grounds for appeal are as follows: Procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter (i.e., a failure to follow 
the institution’s own procedures); New evidence that was not reasonabl y available at 
the time the determination regarding responsibility or dismissal was made, that could affect the outcome of the matter; The Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), or decision-
maker(s) had a conflict of interest or bias for or against an indi vidual party, or for or   
55 
 against complainants or respondents in general, that affected the outcome of the 
matter. The submission of an appeal stays any sanctions for the pendency of an appeal. 
Supportive measures and remote learning opportunities remain available during the 
pendency of the appeal. If a party appeals, the school will as soon as practicable notify 
the other party in writing of the appeal; however the time for appeal shall be offered 
equitably to all parties and shall not be extended for any pa rty solely because the other 
party filed an appeal. Appeals will be decided by an individual, who will be free of conflict of interest and bias, and will not serve as investigator, Title IX Coordinator, or 
decision -maker in the same matter.  
• Example Policy 2: Appeals are available after a complaint dismissal or after a final 
determination is made. Appeals can be made due to procedural irregularities in the 
investigation affecting the outcome, new evidence becoming available, or due to bias or 
a conflict of i nterest by Title IX personnel that may have affected the outcome. Appeal 
requests must be made within 30 days of the school’s final determination and include the rationale for the appeal. Parties will be given an opportunity to submit a written 
statement i n support of or against the final determination. A new decision- maker will 
issue the final decision at the same time to each party.  
• Example Policy 3: The complainant and respondent have an equal opportunity to appeal 
the policy violation determination and any sanctions. The school administers the appeal process, but is not a party and does not advocate for or against any appeal. A party may 
appeal only on the following grounds and the appeal should identify the reason(s) why 
the party is appealing: (1) ther e was a procedural error in the hearing process that 
materially affected the outcome; procedural error refers to alleged deviations from 
school policy, and not challenges to policies or procedures themselves; (2) there is new 
evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing and that could 
have affected the outcome; (3) the decision -maker had a conflict of interest or bias that 
affected the outcome; (4) the determination regarding the policy violation was 
unreasonable based on the evidence before the decision -maker; this ground is available 
only to a party who participated in the hearing; and (5) the sanctions were disproportionate to the hearing officer’s findings. The appeal must be submitted within 
10 business days following the issuance of the notice of determination. The appeal must 
identify the ground(s) for appeal and contain specific arguments supporting each 
ground for appeal. The school will notify the other party of the appeal, and that other 
party will have an opportunity to submit a written statement in response to the appeal, 
within three business days. The school will also inform the parties that they have an 
opportunity to meet with the appeal officer separately to discuss the proportionality of 
the sanction. The appeal offi cer, who will not be the same person as the Title IX 
Coordinator, investigator, or decision -maker, will decide the appeal considering the 
evidence presented at the hearing, the investigation file, and the appeal statements of   
56 
 both parties. In disproportionate sanction appeals, they may also consider any input the 
parties provided during the meeting. The appeal officer will summarize their decision in 
a written report that will be sent to the complainant and respondent within 10 business 
days of receiving the appeal.  
XV. Informal Resolution  
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: Informal resolution is available only after a formal complaint has been 
filed, prior to a determination of responsibility, and if the complainant and respondent 
voluntarily consent to the process in writing. Informal resolution is not available in cases in which an employee is alleged to have sexually harassed a student. Informal resolution 
may involve agreement to pursue individual or community remedies, including targeted 
or broad -based educational programming or training; supported direct conversation or 
interaction with the respondent; mediation; indirect action by the Title IX Coordinator; and other forms of resolution that can be tailored to the needs of the parties. With the 
voluntary consent of the parties, informal resolution may be used to agree upon disciplinary sanctions. Disciplinary action will only be imposed against a respondent 
where there is a sufficient factual  foundation and both the complainant and the 
respondent have agreed to forego the additional procedures set forth in this school’s policy and accept an agreed upon sanction. Any person who facilitates an informal 
resolution will be trained and free from co nflicts of interest or bias for or against either 
party. 
• Example Policy 2: The informal resolution process is only available where the complainant has filed a formal sexual harassment complaint that involves parties of the 
same status (e.g., student-student or employee -employee) and the parties voluntarily 
request in writing to resolve the formal complaint through the informal resolution process. Within five workdays of receiving a written request to start the informal 
resolution process, the school will ap point an official to facilitate an effective and 
appropriate resolution. The Title IX Coordinator may serve as the facilitator. Within five workdays of such appointment, the parties may identify to the Title IX Coordinator in writing any potential conflict of interest or bias posed by such facilitator to the matter. 
The Title IX Coordinator will consider the information and appoint another facilitator if a material conflict of interest or bias exists. The facilitator will request a written statement 
from the parties to be submitted within 10 workdays. Each party may request that 
witnesses are interviewed, but the school shall not conduct a full investigation as part of 
the informal resolution process. The facilitator will hold a meeting(s) with the parties 
and coordinate the informal resolution measures. Each party may have one advisor of 
their choice during the meeting, but the advisor may not speak on the party’s behalf. The informal resolution process should be completed within 30 workdays in most cases,   
57 
 unless good cause exists to extend the time. The parties will be notified in writing and 
given the reason for the delay and an estimated time of completion. Any resolution of a 
formal complaint through the informal resolution process must address the concerns of 
the complainant and the responsibility of the school to address alleged violations of its 
policy, while also respecting the due process rights of the respondent. Informal 
resolution process remedies include mandatory training, reflective writing assignment, 
counseling, written counseling memorandum by an employee’s supervisor, suspension, 
termination, or expulsion, or other methods designed to restore or preserve equal 
access to the school’s education programs or activities.  At the conclusion of meeti ngs, 
interviews, and the receipt of statements, the facilitator will write an informal resolution report and provide the parties with the informal resolution report simultaneously.  At 
any time prior to resolving a formal complaint through the informal reso lution process, 
either party may withdraw in writing from the informal resolution process and resume 
or begin the formal resolution process.  
• Example Policy 3: The Title IX Coordinator will determine whether it is appropriate to offer the parties informal r esolution in lieu of a formal investigation of the complaint. In 
the event that the Title IX Coordinator determines that informal resolution is 
appropriate, the parties will be provided written notice disclosing: the allegations, the 
requirements of the informal resolution process including the circumstances under 
which it precludes the parties from resuming a formal complaint arising from the same 
allegations, provided, however, that at any time prior to agreeing to a resolution, any party has the right to  withdraw from the informal resolution process and resume the 
grievance process with respect to the formal complaint, and any consequences resulting from participating in the informal resolution process, including the records that will be 
maintained or cou ld be shared. Both parties must provide voluntary, written consent to 
the informal resolution process.  
XVI. Addressing Conduct That the School Deems to be Sexual Harassment but 
Does Not Meet the Definition of Sexual Harassment Under the Title IX 
Regulations   
Example Policies Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools and Postsecondary Schools  
• Example Policy 1: It is important to note that conduct that does not meet the criteria 
under Title IX may violate other federal or state laws or school policies regarding 
student misconduct or may be inappropriate and require an immediate response in the 
form of supportive measures and remedies to prevent its recurrence and address its 
effects.   
• Example Policy 2: This school adopts a “two -pronged” approach. All conduct not 
covered under the current definition of sexual harassment, including sexual misconduct,   
58 
 will be addressed by the principal under the student code of conduct. Title IX 
procedures will be reserved only for those alleged actions that fall under the Title IX 
definition of sexual harassment.  
• Example Policy 3: The Title IX Coordinator shall investigate the allegations in all formal 
complaints. The Title IX Coordinator must dismiss the formal complaint if the conduct 
alleged in the formal complaint would not constitute sexual harassment as defined in 
this school’s policy even if proved, or is outside the jurisdiction of the school, i.e., the 
conduct did not involve an education program or activity of the school, or did not occur 
against a person in the United States . The Title IX Coordinator shall forward the formal 
complaint to an appropriate school official that will determine whether the conduct 
alleged in the formal complaint violates a separate policy or code of conduct.  
• Example Policy 4: In May of 2020, the U.S. Department of Education issued new 
regulations for colleges and universities that address sexual assault and other sexual 
misconduct. These regulations cover certain specific forms of sexual misconduct. To 
comply with these regulations, this school ha s revised its existing policy for those types 
of misconduct. In addition, this school maintains its existing Sexual Misconduct Policy 
for other types of sexual misconduct that are not covered by the new regulations. Both 
policies are important to creating and supporting a school community that rejects all 
forms of sexual misconduct.  
• Example Policy 5: The Title IX regulations direct the school’s response to some, but not 
all, of the forms of prohibited behavior in this school’s Title IX policy. Allegations in a 
Title IX formal complaint related to behavior that occurs outside of the education 
program or activity or outside the United States, or behavior that would not meet the 
definition of Title IX sexual harassment as defined in this school’s Title IX polic y, must be 
dismissed. Both the complainant and respondent may appeal the dismissal of any 
allegations under Title IX. However, in keeping with the school’s educational mission 
and commitment to fostering a learning, living, and working environment free fro m 
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, this school will still move forward with an 
investigation or formal resolution under the same resolution process for all forms of 
prohibited behavior under this school’s Title IX policy. In this instance, this  school is 
using its Title IX policy as a code of conduct to address behavior that occurred outside of 
the education program or activity or outside of the United States, even though the 
behavior falls outside of Title IX jurisdiction under the Department o f Education’s 2020 
amendments. 
XVII. Pa rent and Guardian Rights  
Example Policy Used by Elementary and Secondary Schools    
59 
 • Example Policy 1: Consistent with the applicable laws of the jurisdiction in which the 
school is located, a student’s parent or guardian must be permitted to exercise the 
rights granted to their child under this school’s policy, whether such rights involve  
requesting supportive measures, filing a formal complaint, or participating in a grievance process. A student’s parent or guardian must also be permitted to accompany 
the student to meetings, interviews, and hearings, if applicable, during a grievance process in order to exercise rights on behalf of the student. The student may have an 
advisor of choice who is a different person from the parent or guardian.  
 Q
AResources on discrimination and harassment
Resources on Discrimination and Harassment - Student and Family Support (SFS)
The Department has moved to 135 Santilli Highway in Everett. The Department's office and Licensure Welcome Center are open. The new location has free parking and is a short walk from the Wellington station on the MBTA's Orange Line.
Administration and Finance
Chapter 74 Nonresident Tuition
Charter Finance and Enrollment
Grants/Funding Opportunities
Inter-District School Choice
School Finance Regulations
Special Ed. Circuit Breaker
Superintendents' Checklist
Accountability Lists, Materials, and Tools
Approved Special Education Schools
Boston Public Schools Systemic Improvement Plan (SIP)
Chronically Underperforming Schools and Districts
District Review Documentation
Leadership and Governance (Toolkit)
Leading Educational Access Project (LEAP)
Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS)
School and District Profiles
School and District Report Cards
Special Education in Institutional Settings
Statewide System of Support
Adult and Community Learning Services
Career Technical Education (CTE)
College Career, and Technical Education
Commonwealth Virtual Schools
Dropout Prevention and Reengagement
Educational Collaboratives
High School Equivalency (HSE)
Innovation Career Pathways
Inter-District School Choice
Mass Academy of Math and Science at WPI
Student and Family Support
Culturally and Linguistically Sustaining Practices
Social and Emotional Learning
Planning for Deeper Learning
DEI Policies and Practices at DESE
John and Abigail Adams Scholarship
MCAS Accessibility and Accommodations
MCAS Grade-Level and Competency Portfolio
National/International Tests
Parent/Guardian Information
Educators and Administrators
Public Awareness Campaigns
Student and Family Support (SFS)
Bullying Prevention and Intervention
Emergency Management Planning
Mental and Behavioral Health and Wellness Supports
Safe and Supportive Schools
Social and Emotional Learning
McKinney-Vento Homeless Education
Resources on Discrimination and Harassment
The following are a sampling of resources on discrimination and harassment, most of which are from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights.
Sexual Harassment:  It's Not Academic (Revised 2008)
Dear Colleague Letter:  Sexual Harassment Issues (2006)
Dear Colleague Letter:  Religious Discrimination (2004)
Dear Colleague Letter:  First Amendment (2003)
Sexual Harassment Guidance (Revised 2001)
Dear Colleague Letter: Prohibited Disability Harassment (2000)
Racial Incidents and Harassment Against Students (1994)
Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 76, Section 5
Last Updated: December 17, 2010
Media and Public Records Requests
Contact a District or School
Sign up to receive updates
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education
135 Santilli Highway, Everett, MA 02149
Disclaimer: A reference in this website to any specific commercial products, processes, or services, or the use of any trade, firm, or corporation name is for the information and convenience of the public and does not constitute endorsement or recommendation by the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.
Schools must comply with new Title IX regulations
403 Forbidden
403 Forbidden
Sexual harassment in housing
District of Massachusetts |  Sexual Harassment in Housing | United States Department of Justice
An official website of the United States government
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Information for Victims in Large Cases
District Organizational Chart
Sexual Harassment in Housing
Violent Extremism Prevention
Victim and Witness Assistance Program
Civil and Criminal Debt Repayment
Guide to Federal Court and Legal Terms
Administrative & Professional Staff
Undergraduate Student Volunteer Program
title="Guidance & Resources"
Information for Victims in Large Cases
Sexual Harassment in Housing
Sexual Harassment in Housing
The Sexual Harassment in Housing Initiative is an effort by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Rights Division to combat sexual harassment in housing by addressing sexual harassment by landlords, property managers, maintenance workers, loan officers or other people who have control over housing.
The U.S. Attorney’s Office can investigate reports of sexual harassment in housing and file lawsuits against harassers, even if the harassment occurred many years ago.
If you or someone you know has been sexually harassed by someone connected to housing, contact the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s Victim Witness Unit at 617-748-3274 or by e-mailing USAMA.victimassistance@usdoj.gov.
In October 2017, DOJ’s Civil Rights Division announced the Sexual Harassment in Housing Initiative. Two federal statutes – the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act – prohibit sexual harassment in housing and are used to investigate and bring lawsuits. The U.S. Attorney’s Office works with other government agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, state and local governments, and law enforcement, to help victims of sexual harassment.
What is Sexual Harassment in Housing?
Sexual harassment in housing includes demands for sex or sexual acts in order to buy, rent, or continue renting a home. It also includes other unwelcome sexual conduct that makes it hard to keep living in or feel comfortable in your home.
The following may be examples of sexual harassment in housing:
My landlord made a lot of comments about having sex with me. I ignored him. When I fell behind on rent, the landlord said there was another way I could pay. I said no and he evicted me.
The housing authority inspector wouldn’t approve the apartment I wanted to rent with my voucher unless I performed a sexual act. I agreed in order to get my family off the street.
The maintenance person won’t fix anything in my apartment unless I have sex with him. I don’t know what I’m going to do about the broken heater when it gets even colder.
I went to look at a home to rent and the owner told me she would lower the rent if I had sex with him/her.
The owner of the home I rent makes comments about my body, clothes, and the sexual acts he wants me to perform on him.
U.S. Department of Justice: Fair Housing Act
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development: Sexual Harassment in Housing
1 Courthouse Way, Suite 9200
Legal Policies & Disclaimers
Office of the Inspector General
Have a question about Government Services?
Sexual harassment in housing
Sexual Harassment | HUD.gov / U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Press RoomProgram OfficesResourcesFind ShelterState InfoContact UsInformación en Español
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Reporting in Languages Other than English
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing
National Fair Housing Training Academy
Limited English Proficiency Initiative
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Reporting in Languages Other than English
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing
National Fair Housing Training Academy
Limited English Proficiency Initiative
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
Get Help Before Reporting Housing Discrimination
Reporting in Languages Other than English
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing
National Fair Housing Training Academy
Limited English Proficiency Initiative
Requirements for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program
Requirements for Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program
Requirements for Rental Assistance Demonstration
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant Program
Requirements for Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  Programs
Sexual harassment by housing providers is illegal under the Fair Housing Act and other federal laws.
The Fair Housing Act and other federal laws prohibit sexual harassment.  These laws also prohibit harassment because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial status, or disability.
What Can I Do If I Am Being Sexually Harassed?
Sexual harassment in housing is a form of sex discrimination prohibited by the Fair Housing Act. Sex discrimination is also prohibited by other federal laws, such as Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and Title IX of Education Amendments of 1972. There are two main types of sexual harassment: (1) quid pro quo sexual harassment; and (2) hostile environment sexual harassment.
Quid pro quo harassment occurs when a housing provider requires a person to submit to an unwelcome request to engage in sexual conduct as a condition of obtaining or maintaining housing or housing-related services. For example:
A landlord tells an applicant he won’t rent her an apartment unless she has sex with him.
A property manager evicts a tenant after she refuses to perform sexual acts.
A maintenance man refuses to make repairs unless a tenant gives him nude photos of herself.
Hostile environment harassment occurs when a housing provider subjects a person to severe or pervasive unwelcome sexual conduct that interferes with the sale, rental, availability, or terms, conditions, or privileges of housing or housing-related services, including financing. For example:
A landlord subjects a tenant to severe or pervasive unwelcome touching, kissing, or groping.
A property manager makes severe or pervasive unwelcome, lewd comments about a tenant’s body.
A maintenance man sends a tenant severe or pervasive unwelcome, sexually suggestive texts and enters her apartment without invitation or permission.
What Can I Do If I Am Being Sexually Harassed in My Housing Environment?
If you are being sexually harassed, you can file a complaint with HUD. If you would be safe doing so, you can tell the harasser to stop. You can also make a complaint to your housing provider, if different from the harasser.
When you file your complaint with HUD, you should tell them the name of the person harassing you, when and where it happened, and the names of any witnesses or other individuals who have been or are being harassed.
Questions and Answers on Sexual Harassment Under the Fair Housing Act
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410
Privacy Policy       |       Web Policies       |       Accessibility       |       Sitemap
Privacy Policy  |  Web Policies  |  Accessibility  |  Sitemap
Summary of major provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX final rule
Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX Final Rule 
Issue 
1.Notice to the School,
College, Universizy
("Schools''):
Actual Knowledge
2.Definition of Sexual
Harassment for Title IX
PurposesThe Title IX Final Rule: Addressing Sexual Harassment in Schools 
The Final Rule requires a K-12 school to respond whenever any employee has notice of sexual harassment, 
including allegations of sexual harassment. Many State laws also require all K-12 employees to be mandato1y 
rep01iers of child abuse. For postseconda1y institutions, the Final Rule allows the institution to choose whether to 
have mandat01y repo1iing for all employees, or to designate some employees to be confidential resources for 
college students to discuss sexual harassment without automatically triggering a report to the Title IX office. 
For all schools, notice to a Title IX Coordinator, or to an official with authority to institute con-ective measures on 
the recipient's behalf, charges a school with actual knowledge and triggers the school's response obligations. 
The Final Rule defines sexual harassment broadly to include any of three types of misconduct on the basis of sex, 
all of which jeopardize the equal access to education that Title IX is designed to protect: Any instance of quid pro 
quo harassment by a school's employee; any unwelcome conduct that a reasonable person would find so severe, 
pervasive, and objectively offensive that it denies a person equal educational access; any instance of sexual 
assault (as defined in the Cle1y Act), dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking as defined in the Violence 
Against Women Act (VAWA). 
-The Final Rule prohibits sex-based Inisconduct in a manner consistent with the First An1endment. Quid pro quo
harassment and Cle1y ActN AW A offenses are not evaluated for severity, pervasiveness, offensiveness, or denial
of equal educational access, because such Inisconduct is sufficiently serious to deprive a person of equal access.
-The Final Rule uses the Supreme Comi's Davis definition (severe and pervasive and objectively offensive
conduct, effectively denying a person equal educational access) as one of the three categories of sexual
harassment, so that where unwelcome sex-based conduct consists of speech or expressive conduct, schools
balance Title IX enforcement with respect for free speech and academic freedom.
-The Final Rule uses the Supreme Comi's Title IX-specific definition rather than the Supreme Comi's Title VII
workplace standard (severe or pervasive conduct creating a hostile work environment). First Amendment
concerns differ in educational environments and workplace environments, and the Title IX definition provides
First Amendment protections appropriate for educational institutions where students are learning, and employees
are teaching. Students, teachers, faculty, and others should enjoy free speech and acadeinic freedom protections,
even when speech or expression is offensive.
Page 1 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
    
   
    
  
 
                     
               
               
                  
                   
              
                 
                
         
                   
                
               
  
 
   
                      
    
                   
       
                 
               
                 
       
                
 
                 
                  
                   
                  
                    
                Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
3. Sexual Harassment
Occurring in a School’s“Education Program orActivity” and “in the
United States”The Title IX statute applies to persons in the United States with respect to education programs or activities that 
receive Federal financial assistance. Under the Final Rule, schools must respond when sexual harassment occurs 
in the school’s education program or activity, against a person in the United States. 
- The Title IX statute and existing regulations contain broad definitions of a school’s “program or activity” and
the Department will continue to look to these definitions for the scope of a school’s education program or activity.
Education program or activity includes locations, events, or circumstances over which the school exercised
substantial control over both the respondent and the context in which the sexual harassment occurred, and also
includes any building owned or controlled by a student organization that is officially recognized by a
postsecondary institution (such as a fraternity or sorority house).
- Title IX applies to all of a school’s education programs or activities, whether such programs or activities occur
on-campus or off-campus. A school may address sexual harassment affecting its students or employees that falls
outside Title IX’s jurisdiction in any manner the school chooses, including providing supportive measures or
pursuing discipline.
4. Accessible Reporting
to Title IX Coordinator
The Final Rule expands a school’s obligations to ensure its educational community knows how to report to the 
Title IX Coordinator. 
- The employee designated by a recipient to coordinate its efforts to comply with Title IX responsibilities must be
referred to as the “Title IX Coordinator.”
- Instead of notifying only students and employees of the Title IX Coordinator’s contact information, the school
must also notify applicants for admission and employment, parents or legal guardians of elementary and
secondary school students, and all unions, of the name or title, office address, e-mail address, and telephone
number of the Title IX Coordinator.
- Schools must prominently display on their websites the required contact information for the Title IX
Coordinator.- Any person may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment (whether or not the person reporting is
the person alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment), in
person, by mail, by telephone, or by e-mail, using the contact information listed for the Title IX Coordinator, or
by any other means that results in the Title IX Coordinator receiving the person’s verbal or written report.
- Such a report may be made at any time, including during non-business hours, by using the telephone number or
e-mail address, or by mail to the office address, listed for the Title IX Coordinator.
5. School’s  Mandatory 
Response   Obligations:  
The  Deliberate  
Indifference   Standard Schools  must  respond  promptly  to  Title  IX  sexual  harassment  in  a  manner  that  is  not  deliberately   indifferent,   
which  means  a  response  that  is  not  clearly  unreasonable   in  light  of  the  known  circumstances.   Schools  have  the  
following   mandatory   response  obligations:   
- Schools  must  offer  supportive  measures   to  the  person  alleged  to  be  the  victim (referred  to  as  the  “complainant”).   
Page 2 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
                  
             
                 
           
                  
             
                
         
                 
              
                  
                
                
                      
                   
                   
              
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
- The Title IX Coordinator must promptly contact the complainant confidentially to discuss the availability of
supportive measures, consider the complainant’s wishes with respect to supportive measures, inform the
complainant of the availability of supportive measures with or without the filing of a formal complaint, and
explain to the complainant the process for filing a formal complaint.
- Schools must follow a grievance process that complies with the Final Rule before the imposition of any
disciplinary sanctions or other actions that are not supportive measures, against a respondent.
- Schools must not restrict rights protected under the U.S. Constitution, including the First Amendment, Fifth
Amendment, and Fourteenth Amendment, when complying with Title IX.
- The Final Rule requires a school to investigate sexual harassment allegations in any formal complaint, which
can be filed by a complainant, or signed by a Title IX Coordinator.
- The Final Rule affirms that a complainant’s wishes with respect to whether the school investigates should be
respected unless the Title IX Coordinator determines that signing a formal complaint to initiate an investigation
over the wishes of the complainant is not clearly unreasonable in light of the known circumstances.
- If the allegations in a formal complaint do not meet the definition of sexual harassment in the Final Rule, or did
not occur in the school’s education program or activity against a person in the United States, the Final Rule
clarifies that the school must dismiss such allegations for purposes of Title IX but may still address the allegations
in any manner the school deems appropriate under the school’s own code of conduct.
6. School’s Mandatory
Response Obligations:
Defining 
“Complainant,” “Respondent,” “Formal Complaint,” “Supportive Measures” When  responding   t
 o  sexual  harassment   (e.g.,  by  offering  supportive   measures  to  a  complainant   and  refraining   
from  disciplining   a  respondent   without  following   a  Title  IX  grievance   process,  which  includes  investigating   
formal  complaints   of  sexual  harassment),   the  Final  Rule  provides  clear  definitions   of  complainant,   respondent,   
formal  complaint,   and  supportive   measures  so  that  recipients,   students,  and  employees   clearly  understand   how  a  
school  must  respond  to  sexual  harassment   incidents  in  a  way  that  supports  the  alleged  victim  and  treats  both  
parties  fairly.  
 
The  Final  Rule  defines  “complainant”   as  an  individual   who  is  alleged  to  be  the  victim  of  conduct  that  could  
constitute   sexual  harassment.   
- This  clarifies  that  any  third  party  as  well  as  the  complainant   may  report  sexual  harassment.  
- While  parents  and  guardians   do  not  become  complainants   (or  respondents),   the  Final  Rule  expressly   recognizes  
the  legal  rights  of  parents  and  guardians   to  act  on  behalf  of  parties  (including   by  filing  formal  complaints)   in  Title 
IX  matters. 
 
The  Final  Rule  defines  “respondent”   as  an  individual   who  has  been  reported  to  be  the  perpetrator   of  conduct  that  
could  constitute  sexual  harassment.   
Page 3 of  9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
                    
              
      
                    
               
                     
                    
      
                   
                 
               
                    
                  
   
             
               
         
                   
                
                
    
 
 
                
                 
                 
   
                
             
    
                   
               
                
        
              
            Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
The Final Rule defines “formal complaint” as a document filed by a complainant or signed by the Title IX 
Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a respondent and requesting that the school investigate the 
allegation of sexual harassment and states: 
- At the time of filing a formal complaint, a complainant must be participating in or attempting to participate in
the education program or activity of the school with which the formal complaint is filed.
- A formal complaint may be filed with the Title IX Coordinator in person, by mail, or by electronic mail, by
using the contact information required to be listed for the Title IX Coordinator under the Final Rule, and by any
additional method designated by the school.
- The phrase “document filed by a complainant” means a document or electronic submission (such as by e-mail or
through an online portal provided for this purpose by the school) that contains the complainant’s physical or
digital signature, or otherwise indicates that the complainant is the person filing the formal complaint.
- Where the Title IX Coordinator signs a formal complaint, the Title IX Coordinator is not a complainant or a
party during a grievance process, and must comply with requirements for Title IX personnel to be free from
conflicts and bias.
The Final Rule defines “supportive measures” as individualized services reasonably available that are non-
punitive, non-disciplinary, and not unreasonably burdensome to the other party while designed to ensure equal
educational access, protect safety, or deter sexual harassment.
- The Final Rule evaluates a school’s selection of supportive measures and remedies based on what is not clearly
unreasonable in light of the known circumstances, and does not second guess a school’s disciplinary decisions,
but requires the school to offer supportive measures, and provide remedies to a complainant whenever a
respondent is found responsible . 
7. Grievance  Process,  
   General  Requirements  The Final Rule prescribes a consistent, transparent grievance process for resolving formal complaints of sexual 
harassment. Aside from hearings (see Issue #9 below), the grievance process prescribed by the Final Rule applies 
to all schools equally including K-12 schools and postsecondary institutions. The Final Rule states that a school’s 
grievance process must: - Treat complainants equitably by providing remedies any time a respondent is found responsible, and treat
respondents equitably by not imposing disciplinary sanctions without following the grievance process prescribed
in the Final Rule.
- Remedies, which are required to be provided to a complainant when a respondent is found responsible, must be
designed to maintain the complainant’s equal access to education and may include the same individualized
services described in the Final Rule as supportive measures; however, remedies need not be non-disciplinary or
non-punitive and need not avoid burdening the respondent.
- Require objective evaluation of all relevant evidence, inculpatory and exculpatory, and avoid credibility
determinations based on a person’s status as a complainant, respondent , or witness. 
Page 4 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
               
                 
 
                    
                
              
              
                   
                
          
                 
           
                   
         
                
              
                  
           
                   
              
   
                
 
                   
            
                      
               
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
- Require Title IX personnel (Title IX Coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, people who facilitate any
informal resolution process) to be free from conflicts of interest or bias for or against complainants or
respondents.- Training of Title IX personnel must include training on the definition of sexual harassment in the Final Rule, the
scope of the school’s education program or activity, how to conduct an investigation and grievance process
including hearings, appeals, and informal resolution processes, as applicable, and how to serve impartially,
including by avoiding prejudgment of the facts at issue, conflicts of interest, and bias.
- A school must ensure that decision-makers receive training on any technology to be used at a live hearing.
- A school’s decision-makers and investigators must receive training on issues of relevance, including how to
apply the rape shield protections provided only for complainants.
- Include a presumption that the respondent is not responsible for the alleged conduct until a determination
regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the grievance process.
- Recipients must post materials used to train Title IX personnel on their websites, if any, or make materials
available for members of the public to inspect.
- Include reasonably prompt time frames for conclusion of the grievance process, including appeals and informal
resolutions, with allowance for short-term, good cause delays or extensions of the time frames.
- Describe the range, or list, the possible remedies a school may provide a complainant and disciplinary sanctions
a school might impose on a respondent, following determinations of responsibility.
- State whether the school has chosen to use the preponderance of the evidence standard, or the clear and
convincing evidence standard, for all formal complaints of sexual harassment (including where employees and
faculty are respondents).
- Describe the school’s appeal procedures, and the range of supportive measures available to complainants and
respondents.- A school’s grievance process must not use, rely on, or seek disclosure of information protected under a legally
recognized privilege, unless the person holding such privilege has waived the privilege.
- Any provisions, rules, or practices other than those required by the Final Rule that a school adopts as part of its
grievance process for handling formal complaints of sexual harassment, must apply equally to both parties.
Page 5 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
  
  
 
 
               
                  
  
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
8. Investigations  
       The  Final  Rule  states  that  the  school  must  investigate   the  allegations   in  any  formal  complaint   and  send  written  
notice  to  both  parties  (complainants   and  respondents)   of  the  allegations   upon  receipt  of  a  formal  complaint.   
During  the  grievance   process  and  when  investigating:  
- The  burden  of  gathering   evidence   and  burden  of  proof  must  remain  on  schools,  not  on  the  parties.  
- Schools  must  provide  equal  opportunity   for  the  parties  to  present  fact  and  expert  witnesses   and  other  inculpatory  
and  exculpatory   evidence.  
- Schools  must  not  restrict  the  ability  of  the  parties  to  discuss  the  allegations   or  gather  evidence   (e.g.,  no  “gag 
orders”). 
- Parties  must  have  the  same  opportunity  to  select  an  advisor  of  the  party’s  choice  who  may  be,  but  need  not  be, 
an  attorney.  
- Schools  must  send  written  notice  of  any  investigative   interviews,   meetings,   or  hearings. 
- Schools  must  send  the  parties,  and  their  advisors,  evidence   directly  related  to  the  allegations,  in  electronic  
format  or  hard  copy,  with  at  least  10  days  for  the  parties  to  inspect,  review,  and  respond  to  the  evidence.  
- Schools  must  send  the  parties,  and  their  advisors,  an  investigative   report  that  fairly  summarizes   relevant 
evidence,   in  electronic   format  or  hard  copy,  with  at  least  10  days  for  the  parties  to  respond. 
- Schools  must  dismiss  allegations   of  conduct  that  do  not  meet  the  Final  Rule’s  definition   of  sexual  harassment   or 
did  not  occur  in  a  school’s  education   program  or  activity  against  a  person  in  the  U.S.   Such  dismissal   is  only  for 
Title  IX  purposes   and  does  not  preclude  the  school  from  addressing   the  conduct  in  any  manner  the  school  deems 
appropriate.  
- Schools  may,  in  their  discretion,   dismiss  a  formal  complaint   or  allegations   therein  if  the  complainant   informs  the 
Title  IX  Coordinator   in  writing  that  the  complainant   desires  to  withdraw   the  formal  complaint   or  allegations  
therein,  if  the  respondent   is  no  longer  enrolled  or  employed   by  the  school,  or  if  specific  circumstances   prevent  the 
school  from  gathering   sufficient   evidence  to  reach  a  determination.   
- Schools  must  give  the  parties  written  notice  of  a  dismissal  (mandatory   or  discretionary)   and  the  reasons  for  the 
dismissal.  
- Schools  may,  in  their  discretion,   consolidate   formal  complaints   where  the  allegations   arise  out  of  the  same  facts. 
- The  Final  Rule  protects  the  privacy  of  a  party’s  medical,  psychological,   and  similar  treatment  records  by  stating 
that  schools  cannot  access  or  use  such  records  unless  the  school  obtains  the  party’s  voluntary,   written  consent  to 
do  so. 
9. Hearings: The Final Rule adds provisions to the “live hearing with cross-examination” requirement for postsecondary 
institutions and clarifies that hearings are optional for K-12 schools (and any other recipient that is not a 
postsecondary institution). 
Page 6 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021),  appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
  
 
                 
   
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
(a) Live  Hearings  & 
Cross-Examination 
(for  Postsecondary  
Institutions)  
(b) Hearings  are 
Optional,   Written 
Questions  
Required  
(for  K-12  Schools) 
(c) Rape  Shield 
Protections  for 
Complainants  (a) For  postsecondary   institutions,  the  school’s  grievance  process  must  provide  for  a  live  hearing: 
- At  the  live  hearing,  the  decision-maker(s)   must  permit  each  party’s  advisor  to  ask  the  other  party  and  any 
witnesses   all  relevant  questions  and  follow-up   questions,   including   those  challenging   credibility.  
- Such  cross-examination   at  the  live  hearing  must  be  conducted   directly,  orally,  and  in  real  time  by  the  party’s 
advisor  of  choice  and  never  by  a  party  personally.  
- At  the  request  of  either  party,  the  recipient  must  provide  for  the  entire  live  hearing  (including   cross-examination)  
to  occur  with  the  parties  located  in  separate  rooms  with  technology   enabling  the  parties  to  see  and  hear  each  other.  
- Only  relevant  cross-examination   and  other  questions   may  be  asked  of  a  party  or  witness.  Before  a  complainant,  
respondent,   or  witness  answers  a  cross-examination   or  other  question,   the  decision-maker   must  first  determine  
whether  the  question  is  relevant  and  explain  to  the  party’s  advisor  asking  cross-examination   questions   any 
decision  to  exclude  a  question  as  not  relevant.  
- If  a  party  does  not  have  an  advisor  present  at  the  live  hearing,  the  school  must  provide,  without  fee  or  charge  to 
that  party,  an  advisor  of  the  school’s  choice  who  may  be,  but  is  not  required  to  be,  an  attorney  to  conduct  cross-
examination   on  behalf  of  that  party. 
- If  a  party  or  witness  does  not  submit  to  cross-examination   at  the  live  hearing,  the  decision-maker(s)   must  not 
rely  on  any  statement   of  that  party  or  witness  in  reaching  a  determination   regarding   responsibility;   provided,  
however,  that  the  decision-maker(s)   cannot  draw  an  inference   about  the  determination   regarding   responsibility  
based  solely  on  a  party’s  or  witness’s   absence  from  the  live  hearing  or  refusal  to  answer  cross-examination   or 
other  questions.  
- Live  hearings  may  be  conducted   with  all  parties  physically   present  in  the  same  geographic   location  or,  at  the 
school’s  discretion,   any  or  all  parties,  witnesses,   and  other  participants   may  appear  at  the  live  hearing  virtually.  
- Schools  must  create  an  audio  or  audiovisual   recording,   or  transcript,   of  any  live  hearing. 
(b) For  recipients   that  are  K-12  schools,  and  other  recipients   that  are  not  postsecondary   institutions,   the  recipient’s  
grievance   process  may,  but  need  not,  provide  for  a  hearing:  
- With  or  without  a  hearing,  after  the  school  has  sent  the  investigative   report  to  the  parties  and  before  reaching  a 
determination   regarding   responsibility,   the  decision-maker(s)   must  afford  each  party  the  opportunity   to  submit 
written,  relevant  questions  that  a  party  wants  asked  of  any  party  or  witness,  provide  each  party  with  the  answers, 
and  allow  for  additional,   limited  follow-up   questions   from  each  party.  
(c) The  Final  Rule  provides  rape  shield  protections  for  complainants   (as  to  all  recipients   whether  postsecondary  
institutions,   K-12  schools,  or  others),  deeming  irrelevant  questions   and  evidence   about  a  complainant’s   prior 
sexual  behavior  unless  offered  to  prove  that  someone  other  than  the  respondent   committed   the  alleged  misconduct  
or  offered  to  prove  consent. 
Page 7 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
   
 
 
  
                  
                
                 
                  
    
                    
             
                
           
                   
 
 
  
 
                  
                 
                
                     
  
              
 
                      
                 
                 
                  
                  
                 
                  
                     
             
                 
    
 
 
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
10. Standard of
Evidence & Written
DeterminationThe Final Rule requires the school’s grievance process to state whether the standard of evidence to determine 
responsibility is the preponderance of the evidence standard or the clear and convincing evidence standard. The 
Final Rule makes each school’s grievance process consistent by requiring each school to apply the same standard 
of evidence for all formal complaints of sexual harassment whether the respondent is a student or an employee 
(including faculty member). - The decision-maker (who cannot be the same person as the Title IX Coordinator or the investigator) must issue a
written determination regarding responsibility with findings of fact, conclusions about whether the alleged
conduct occurred, rationale for the result as to each allegation, any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the
respondent, and whether remedies will be provided to the complainant.
- The written determination must be sent simultaneously to the parties along with information about how to file an
appeal.
11. Appeals The Final Rule states that a school must offer both parties an appeal from a determination regarding 
responsibility, and from a school’s dismissal of a formal complaint or any allegations therein, on the following 
bases: procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter, newly discovered evidence that could affect 
the outcome of the matter, and/or Title IX personnel had a conflict of interest or bias, that affected the outcome of 
the matter. 
- A school may offer an appeal equally to both parties on additional bases.
12. Informal Resolution The Final Rule allows a school, in its discretion, to choose to offer and facilitate informal resolution options, such 
as mediation or restorative justice, so long as both parties give voluntary, informed, written consent to attempt 
informal resolution. Any person who facilitates an informal resolution must be well trained. The Final Rule adds: 
- A school may not require as a condition of enrollment or continuing enrollment, or employment or continuing
employment, or enjoyment of any other right, waiver of the right to a formal investigation and adjudication of
formal complaints of sexual harassment. Similarly, a school may not require the parties to participate in an
informal resolution process and may not offer an informal resolution process unless a formal complaint is filed.
- At any time prior to agreeing to a resolution, any party has the right to withdraw from the informal resolution
process and resume the grievance process with respect to the formal complaint.
- Schools must not offer or facilitate an informal resolution process to resolve allegations that an employee
sexually harassed a student.
Page 8 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
        
                   
                  
             
                 
                  
                
                                   
                
                 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
13. RetaliationProhibited The Final Rule expressly prohibits retaliation. 
- Charging an individual with code of conduct violations that do not involve sexual harassment, but arise out of
the same facts or circumstances as a report or formal complaint of sexual harassment, for the purpose of
interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX constitutes retaliation.
- The school must keep confidential the identity of complainants, respondents, and witnesses, except as may be
permitted by FERPA, as required by law, or as necessary to carry out a Title IX proceeding.
- Complaints alleging retaliation may be filed according to a school’s prompt and equitable grievance procedures.
- The exercise of rights protected under the First Amendment does not constitute retaliation.
- Charging an individual with a code of conduct violation for making a materially false statement in bad faith in
the course of a Title IX grievance proceeding does not constitute retaliation; however, a determination regarding
responsibility, alone, is not sufficient to conclude that any party made a bad faith materially false statement. 
Page 9 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon.Emerging issues in Title IX compliance, investigations & litigation
Emerging issues in Title IX compliance, investigations & litigationLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Emerging issues in Title IX compliance, investigations & litigation
Emerging issues in Title IX compliance, investigations & litigation
At head of title: Seminar."MCLE program materials, July 31, 2019"--Cover."2190299PMA"-- Page [4] of cover.
Sexual harassment in universities and colleges -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Women college students -- Crimes against -- Massachusetts.Rape -- Investigation -- Massachusetts.Sexual harassment in universities and colleges -- Law and legislation -- United States.Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation -- United States.Women college students -- Crimes against -- United States.Rape -- Investigation -- United States.Rape -- Investigation. (OCoLC)fst01089974Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114887Women college students -- Crimes against. (OCoLC)fst01177459Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewItems:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:61045Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Employment discrimination
Employment discriminationLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Employment discrimination
v. (loose-leaf) : forms ; 26 cm.
Also available in eBook format. Requires library card.
Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewLatest Updates by Library:Holding InformationLibraryLocation
Hampden Law Library (Springfield)
Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)
Items:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:185639780820516264Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Employment discrimination in Massachusetts
Employment discrimination in MassachusettsLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Employment discrimination in Massachusetts
Employment discrimination in Massachusetts
1 volume (various pagings) : illustrations, forms ; 23 cm
At head of cover title: Employment & labor law, print & ebooks."2220279B03"--Title page verso.
Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00895060Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewItems:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:63353Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Employment law
Employment lawLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Employment law
Employment law: statutes and regulations.
[St. Paul, Minn.] : Thomson Reuters, 2016-
2 volumes (various pagings) ; 27 cm.
Massachusetts practice series; v. 45, 45AMassachusetts practice,
Accompanied by: Statutes & regulations (v. 45A), [various editions].
Labor laws and legislation -- Massachusetts.Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewLatest Updates by Library:Holding InformationLibraryLocation
Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)
Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)
Hampden Law Library (Springfield)
Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)
Items:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:56687Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Litigating sexual harassment & sex discrimination cases
Litigating sexual harassment & sex discrimination cases.Logging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Litigating sexual harassment & sex discrimination cases.
Litigating sexual harassment & sex discrimination cases.
volumes : illustrations ; 28 cm + computer optical discs (4 3/4 in.)
Volumes for 2014- by Aaron B. Maduff.Previous author: Elizabeth Hubbard (1997-2011).
Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- Outlines, syllabi, etc.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- Outlines, syllabi, etc.Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- Trial practice.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- Trial practice.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114415Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- Trial practice. (OCoLC)fst01114418Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114862Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- Trial practice. (OCoLC)fst01114864Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewLatest Updates by Library:Holding InformationLibraryLocation
Items:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:55273Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Massachusetts employment law
Massachusetts employment lawLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Massachusetts employment law
Boston, MA : MCLE New England, [2020]-
Labor laws and legislation -- Massachusetts.Employees -- Recruiting -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Employees -- Dismissal of -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- Massachusetts.Discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00895060Employees -- Dismissal of -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00909128Employees -- Recruiting -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00909189Labor laws and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00989967Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewLatest Updates by Library:Holding InformationLibraryLocation
Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)
Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)
Items:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:617779781683451655Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Preventing & handling sexual harassment in the #metoo era
Preventing & handling sexual harassment claims in the #metoo eraLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Preventing & handling sexual harassment claims in the #metoo era
Preventing & handling sexual harassment claims in the #metoo era
At head of title: Seminar."MCLE program materials, March 19, 2019"--Cover."2190140PMA"--Page [4] of cover.
Sexual harassment -- United States -- Prevention.Sexual harassment -- Law and Legislation -- United States.Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114862Sexual harassment -- Prevention. (OCoLC)fst01114865Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewItems:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberStatusItem HoldsSearching...Barnstable Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Essex Law Library (Salem)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampden Law Library (Springfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lowell Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Middlesex Law Library (Woburn)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Norfolk Law Library (Dedham)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Worcester Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:60701Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Sexual harassment and retaliation : a practical handbook for plaintiff and defense
Sexual harassment and retaliation : a practical handbook for plaintiff and defenseLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Sexual harassment and retaliation : a practical handbook for plaintiff and defense
Sexual harassment and retaliation : a practical handbook for plaintiff and defense
Chicago, Illinois : American Bar Association, Tort Trial & Insurance Practice, [2019]
Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- Trial practice.Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114862Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- Trial practice. (OCoLC)fst01114864Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewItems:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberStatusItem HoldsSearching...Berkshire Law Library (Pittsfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Fall River Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:620299781641053013Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Sexual harassment in the workplace : law and practice
Sexual harassment in the workplace : law and practiceLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Sexual harassment in the workplace : law and practice
Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation -- United States.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States.Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- States.Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation -- United States -- States.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- United States -- States.Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114415Sex discrimination in employment -- Law and legislation -- U.S. states. (OCoLC)fst01114419Sexual harassment -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114862Sexual harassment of women -- Law and legislation. (OCoLC)fst01114887Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewLatest Updates by Library:Holding InformationLibraryLocation
Items:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberCopyStatusItem HoldsSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Brockton Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Lawrence Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:636489781543816655Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
Your rights in the workplace
Your rights in the workplaceLogging in...Borrower ID: Enter the number on the back of the library card without spaces:RegisterForgot your PIN?Log In|My Account|My Lists|Library InformationLibrary info|Select LanguageEnglishEspañol||Remember to clear the cache and close the browser window.
Search LimitEverythingBooksSound RecordingseAudiobookseBooksJournalsMicroformWebsitesRooms Restriction ValuesAll FieldsTitleAuthorKeyword in Author headingsPublisherSubjectKeyword in Subject headingsSeriesISBNSearch FieldAll FieldsTarget ValueLimit ValueRestriction ValueSearch For:To enable accessibility mode, return to the beginning of the page and use the link in the menu bar.Advanced SearchLaw Library home pageLaw about pagesAsk a Law LibrarianActions:Add to My ListsEmailPrintPlace Hold(s)Your rights in the workplace
"An employee's guide to fair treatment"--Cover."Includes workplace laws for all 50 states"--Cover.
Labor laws and legislation -- United States -- Popular works.Employee rights -- United States -- Popular works.Employee rights. (OCoLC)fst00909055Labor laws and legislation. (OCoLC)fst00989967Labor laws and legislation -- United States.Employee rights -- United States.Holds: PermalinkMARC ViewItems:*LibraryCollectionCollection LocationCall NumberStatusItem HoldsSearching...Bristol Law Library (Taunton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Franklin Law Library (Greenfield)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Hampshire Law Library (Northampton)Searching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableSearching...Plymouth Law LibrarySearching...Unknown
Searching...UnknownSearching...UnavailableBound With These TitlesOn OrderSD_ILS:609299781413325416Select a listTemporary ListMake this your default list.The following items were successfully added.There was an error while adding the following items. Please try again.One or more items could not be added because you are not logged in.Copyright 2023
AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools, is
Press Release AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools
Proposed Rule Would Roll Back Harmful Trump Administration Policy That AG Healey Challenged in Court
Media Contact    for AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools
Call Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at (617) 727-2543
Email Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at Thomas.F.Dalton@mass.gov
BOSTON — Attorney General Maura Healey today joined a coalition of 16 attorneys general in support of the federal government’s proposed rule aimed at strengthening protections against sex discrimination — including sexual violence and harassment — under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. Title IX requires schools to provide educational programs and activities free from sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence.
In the comment letter, led by California, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, the coalition applauds the federal government’s efforts to reverse many of the critical missteps of the Trump-era rulemaking and highlights additional areas for regulatory action under Title IX to help combat sex discrimination in all its forms.
“Our students deserve a safe learning environment that is free from violence and discrimination,” said AG Healey. “We commend the U.S. Department of Education for restoring these critical protections under Title IX and recommend additional steps to make this rule as strong as possible so that students’ voices are heard, and our educational institutions can ensure equitable access.”
In 2020, the U.S. Department of Education abruptly deviated from more than 30 years of consistent implementation of Title IX to impose an onerous and harmful new process for Title IX sexual violence and harassment proceedings in schools. The department promulgated new rules that work to significantly change how Title IX is enforced. These amendments simultaneously weaken protections for individuals subjected to sexual violence and harassment and burden schools with duplicative, courtroom-like Title IX proceedings. Rather than supporting state efforts to implement Title IX, the 2020 amendments hinder ongoing work to prevent and stop school-based sexual violence and assault at the state level. The 2020 amendments also impose unnecessary barriers to student survivors seeking relief unique only to sexual harassment. These changes were put in place despite clear warnings from AG Healey as well as other attorneys general the year prior. Accordingly, AG Healey joined a coalition of eighteen states which subsequently filed a lawsuit challenging the previous federal government’s final rule in an effort to protect students and empower schools to ensure equal opportunity on their campuses.
The states strongly support the current efforts by the U.S. Department of Education to end many of the harms imposed by the 2020 rule by creating comprehensive standards for Title IX that better meet its primary objectives, i.e., to provide individuals with effective protection against sex discrimination and harassment and to ensure that federal funds are not used to support such misconduct. The current proposed rule realigns Title IX’s implementing regulations with the statute’s nondiscrimination mandate. It also helps preserve schools’ resources by limiting potential duplication of procedures. Additionally, of particular importance to the states, the proposal complements state laws that ensure greater protections for survivors, while preserving the rights of respondents under Title IX to fair and equitable proceedings.
In the comment letter, the coalition addresses how the proposed rule:
Better effectuates Title IX and aligns with congressional intent and longstanding practices;
Standardizes and codifies definitions and procedures across Title IX enforcement;
Improves the sexual violence and harassment complaint process for students in colleges and K-12 schools;
Realigns Title IX’s sexual harassment standards and higher education proceedings to ensure a prompt and equitable resolution process for all students;
Reinforces critical protection against discrimination based on gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnant and parenting status; and
May be further strengthened to help combat sex discrimination in all its forms.
In filing the comment letter, AG Healey joins the attorneys general of California, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington.
for AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools
Call Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at (617) 727-2543
Email Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at Thomas.F.Dalton@mass.gov
Attorney General Maura Healey is the chief lawyer and law enforcement officer of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Media Contact    for AG Healey Supports Federal Proposal Aimed at Strengthening Protections Against Sexual Harassment in Schools
Call Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at (617) 727-2543
Email Thomas Dalton, Deputy Press Secretary at Thomas.F.Dalton@mass.gov
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Contact the Attorney General’s Office | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Early Childhood Education & Care
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Contact the Attorney General’s Office, is
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
The Attorney General's Office is able to help address a broad range of issues. Find the best way to contact the office for the matter you would like addressed.
You can file online, call, or email with staff and teams working at the Attorney General's Office depending on the issue or topic you would like to discuss. You can also apply to work or intern at the Attorney General's Office, invite the Attorney General and her staff to a meeting or event, and apply for grant opportunities.
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
File a request for review with the Attorney General's Criminal Bureau
Request office hours, trainings, or other meetings with staff
Apply for victims of violent crime compensation
Invite Attorney General Andrea Joy Campbell to your event
Directory of contacts at the Attorney General’s Office
Filing an Open Meeting Law complaint
The Attorney General’s regional offices
Submitting a 35B Notice Filing to the Attorney General’s Office
Class action notices and claims against the Commonwealth
Contact the Attorney General's Office
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number.
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office, Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number. at 7-1-1
Find more ways to contact the Attorney General's Office
Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation
Jobs and Internships at the Attorney General's Office
Grant Opportunities at the Attorney General's Office
Bureaus at the Attorney General's Office
Attorney General's Medicaid Fraud Division
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Contact the Attorney General’s Office | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Early Childhood Education & Care
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Contact the Attorney General’s Office, is
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
The Attorney General's Office is able to help address a broad range of issues. Find the best way to contact the office for the matter you would like addressed.
You can file online, call, or email with staff and teams working at the Attorney General's Office depending on the issue or topic you would like to discuss. You can also apply to work or intern at the Attorney General's Office, invite the Attorney General and her staff to a meeting or event, and apply for grant opportunities.
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
File a request for review with the Attorney General's Criminal Bureau
Request office hours, trainings, or other meetings with staff
Apply for victims of violent crime compensation
Invite Attorney General Andrea Joy Campbell to your event
Directory of contacts at the Attorney General’s Office
Filing an Open Meeting Law complaint
The Attorney General’s regional offices
Submitting a 35B Notice Filing to the Attorney General’s Office
Class action notices and claims against the Commonwealth
Contact the Attorney General's Office
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number.
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office, Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number. at 7-1-1
Find more ways to contact the Attorney General's Office
Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation
Jobs and Internships at the Attorney General's Office
Grant Opportunities at the Attorney General's Office
Bureaus at the Attorney General's Office
Attorney General's Medicaid Fraud Division
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Contact the Attorney General’s Office | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Early Childhood Education & Care
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Contact the Attorney General’s Office, is
Contact the Attorney General’s Office
The Attorney General's Office is able to help address a broad range of issues. Find the best way to contact the office for the matter you would like addressed.
You can file online, call, or email with staff and teams working at the Attorney General's Office depending on the issue or topic you would like to discuss. You can also apply to work or intern at the Attorney General's Office, invite the Attorney General and her staff to a meeting or event, and apply for grant opportunities.
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
File a request for review with the Attorney General's Criminal Bureau
Request office hours, trainings, or other meetings with staff
Apply for victims of violent crime compensation
Invite Attorney General Andrea Joy Campbell to your event
Directory of contacts at the Attorney General’s Office
Filing an Open Meeting Law complaint
The Attorney General’s regional offices
Submitting a 35B Notice Filing to the Attorney General’s Office
Class action notices and claims against the Commonwealth
Contact the Attorney General's Office
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office at (617) 727-2200
Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number.
Call Contact the Attorney General's Office, Mass relay users dial 7-1-1 and connect via our main number. at 7-1-1
Find more ways to contact the Attorney General's Office
Massachusetts Victims of Violent Crime Compensation
Jobs and Internships at the Attorney General's Office
Grant Opportunities at the Attorney General's Office
Bureaus at the Attorney General's Office
Attorney General's Medicaid Fraud Division
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
join our user panel
User Panel Sign Up | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Show the sub topics of
Health & Social Services
Vital & Public Records
Show the sub topics of
Professional Licenses & Permits
Workers' Rights & Safety
Show the sub topics of
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Show the sub topics of
Show the sub topics of
Constitutionals & Independents
State Offices & Courts A-Z
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Online Form - Join the Mass.gov User Test Panel
Public Records Requests
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov Privacy Policy
403 Forbidden
403 Forbidden
General Law - Part I, Title IX, Chapter 59, Section 4
The 193rd General Court of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Use MyLegislature to follow bills, hearings, and legislators that interest you.
Sign in with MyLegislature Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
MenuToggle navigation
Recent & Popular Bills
Browse Bills by City/Town
Browse General Laws
Search General Laws
Go to a General Law:
Go  to that General Law
Browse Session Laws
Search Session Laws
Go to a Session Law:
Massachusetts Constitution
Reports and Communications
House Ways & Means Budget
Senate Ways & Means Budget
Conference Committee
Find Your Legislators
Legislative Leadership
Commonwealth Conversations
Clean Energy Future Tour
All Representatives
All Hearings & Events
Senate Committee Hearings
House Committee Hearings
Joint Committee Hearings
Committees & Commissions
Joint Committee Hearings
Senate Committee Hearings
House Committee Hearings
Visit the State House
Request Accessibility
Web Accessibility Policy
Accessibility Initiatives
Educational Opportunities
Student Government Day
Citizens' Legislative Seminar
Create Your Own Bill
ADMINISTRATION OF THE GOVERNMENT
ASSESSMENT OF LOCAL TAXES
Property taxable as personal estate
Search the Legislature
Go Directly to a General Law
Section 4: Property taxable as personal estate
Section 4. Except as provided in the following section and in chapters sixty-two and sixty-three, personal estate for the purpose of taxation shall include:
First, Goods, chattels, money and effects, wherever they are; ships and vessels and their equipment at home or abroad, except as provided in section eight of this chapter, in chapter sixty B and in section sixty-seven of chapter sixty-three.
Second, Money at interest, and other debts due the person to be taxed more than he is indebted or pays interest for; but not including in such debts due him or indebtedness from him any loan on mortgage of real estate, taxable as real estate, except the excess of such loan above the assessed value of the mortgaged real estate.
Third, Public stocks and securities, bonds of railroads and street railways and stocks in turnpikes, bridges and moneyed corporations within or without this commonwealth.
Site Information & Links
Helpful Massachusetts Links
Commonwealth Employment Opportunities
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Boards & Commissions
Non-Profits & Charities
Massachusetts General Laws
Visit the State House
Terms And Conditions
Copyright © 2024 The General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Register for MyLegislature
Register With An Existing Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Register With Your Email Address
Already have an account? Sign in here.
Sign in to MyLegislature
Sign In With Your Facebook or Google+ Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Sign In With Your MyLegislature Account
Not Registered? Click here.
Please enter your email address. If there is an account associated with that address, a password reset link will be mailed to you.
This feature is exclusive to users ofMyLegislature
Search The Legislature
Search the Legislature
Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Show the sub topics of
Health & Social Services
Vital & Public Records
Show the sub topics of
Professional Licenses & Permits
Workers' Rights & Safety
Show the sub topics of
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Show the sub topics of
Show the sub topics of
Constitutionals & Independents
State Offices & Courts A-Z
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Show the sub topics of
Health & Social Services
Vital & Public Records
Show the sub topics of
Professional Licenses & Permits
Workers' Rights & Safety
Show the sub topics of
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Show the sub topics of
Show the sub topics of
Constitutionals & Independents
State Offices & Courts A-Z
Welcome to Massachusetts
What would you like to do?
Apply for unemployment benefits
Renew your driver's license
Buy Fishing or Hunting Licenses
Search court dockets, calendars, and cases
Login to your MassHealth account
Office of Jury Commissioner
SNAP benefits (formerly food stamps)
Child Support Enforcement
Paid Family and Medical Leave
Massachusetts Data Hub
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Housing and Livable Communities launches effort to fight housing discrimination
Campaign aims to empower those with housing vouchers
Tips and reminders for safe ways to stay warm this winter
Winter storm safety tips
Be prepared for cold weather and winter storms
Follow Us on Social Media:
Follow Mass.gov on Facebook
Follow Mass.gov on X, formerly Twitter
Follow Mass.gov on LinkedIn
Follow Mass.gov on Youtube
Follow Mass.gov on Instagram
Follow Mass.gov on Threads
Public Records Requests
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov Privacy Policy
Commonwealth Employment Opportunities
Effective May 11, 2023, Executive Order #595 requiring Executive Department employees to verify COVID-19 vaccination has been rescinded. Positions posted on this site prior to the date of rescission may continue to contain outdated references to Executive Order #595, please disregard these references following May 11.
Due to Federal and State regulations, positions in certain health care and human services settings may continue to require COVID-19 vaccination or approval for an exemption, as a condition of employment. Finalists for these positions will be provided details about the verification or exemption process. Candidates with questions on vaccination requirements should contact the diversity officer listed on the posting for additional information.
The action cannot be completed. Cookies are not enabled on your browser.  Please enable cookies in your browser preferences and refresh your browser to continue. Privacy Agreement MassCareers Online Job Applications
The Human Resources Division of the Executive Office of Administration and Finance ("HRD") manages the MassCareers online job application and onboarding tool.  Through this application, HRD collects a range of highly personal information voluntarily provided by users.  Unless otherwise required by law (including public records law), HRD will use this information solely for hiring, payroll, and other human resources purposes.  HRD also makes this information available to other agencies or entities that are part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, but will require any entity receiving this information to agree to the same restrictions on its use.  Upon hire, employee information that falls under the definition of public records may be published on one or more Commonwealth websites. Victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or rape and victims of an adjudicated crime may request that their information remain private. Similarly, eligible family members of victims may request that their information remain private.
In the event of misuse of the system, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts reserves the right to suspend or delete an applicant’s account or access to MassCareers.   Applicants who have accounts that are suspended or deleted will be notified and given the opportunity to submit future applications for positions through an alternative means.
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Mass DOT
Massachusetts Department of Transportation | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Professional Licenses & Permits
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Constitutionals & Independents
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Access your E-ZPass MA account
Pay your Pay By Plate MA invoice
Find RMV services and information
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Our mission is to deliver excellent customer service to people traveling in the Commonwealth by providing transportation infrastructure which is safe, reliable, robust and resilient. We work to provide a transportation system which can strengthen the state’s economy and improve the quality of life for all.
Construction projects and planning studies
Pay your tolls - E-ZPass and Pay by Plate
MyRMV - Complete RMV transactions online
Work for MassDOT, find job opportunities
Live cameras and real-time traffic conditions
10 Park Plaza, Suite 4160, Boston, MA 02116
This line is open 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., M-F
This line is open 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., M-F
For those who need accessible services
Contact MassDOT - Report Issues
Sign up for news & project updates
At MassDOT, transportation is not about roads and bridges, or trains and buses – it is about people. Our mission begins with customers - individuals, businesses, cities and towns, and regional transit agencies. We support programs and projects that deliver a high return on investment. We partner with cities and towns, public agencies, and private sector businesses. MassDOT supports the economic, quality of life, and environmental goals of the Commonwealth.
Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
Diversity & Civil Rights in Transportation
Travel Service Plazas & Tourist Information Centers
Register and Title Your Vehicle
Passenger (Class D) Driver's Licenses
Self-Driving Systems in Massachusetts
Damage Caused by Roadway Defects
Congestion in the Commonwealth
Shared Streets and Spaces Grant Program
Local Bottleneck Reduction Program
Complete Streets Funding Program
Municipal Small Bridge Program
Massachusetts Traffic Incident Management Responder Training
OIG Confidential Fraud, Waste and Abuse Reporting Hotline
GIS Maps, Transportation Data, and Reports
Financial Statements and Reports
Research and Technology Transfer
Traffic Volume and Classification in Massachusetts
Regulatory Review for MassDOT Divisions
Transportation Dispute Resolution
Public records requests for the Department of Transportation
Office of Real Estate & Economic Development at MassDOT
MassDOT Transportation Planning
Healey-Driscoll Administration Issues Safety Reminders Ahead of Anticipated Winter Storm
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Weather experts anticipate the first widespread, accumulating snow event of the season
MassDOT Expands Multimodal Connectivity Across Massachusetts with 20 Miles of Shared Use Paths Opened in 2023
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
25 additional miles expected to open by end of 2024
MassDOT Announces the Winners of the “Name A Snowplow” Contest
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Competition for Elementary and Middle School Students Helps Recognize the Dedication of Public Works Employees During the Winter Season
See all news and announcements
for the Massachusetts Department of Transportation > Organization Sections > Content
2024 Student Yard Sign Design Contest
Prequalification Committee Meeting, January 17, 2024
Meeting of the MassDOT Board of Directors - January 2024
10 Park Plaza, MassDOT Board Room, Boston, MA 02116
Wednesday, January 17, 2024 at 12 p.m.
Monthly meeting of the MassDOT Board of Directors
Safe Routes to School Webinar for Municipalities
for the Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Boards & Commissions
Appointments to Boards and Commissions | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Early Childhood Education & Care
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Appointments to Boards and Commissions
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Appointments to Boards and Commissions, is
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Appointments to Boards and Commissions
Serving on a board or commission is an important way to make a positive difference and get involved in local and state government.
The Healey-Driscoll administration believes government works best when constituents are involved and engaged in their communities. The Governor's office appoints constituents to more than 700 boards and commissions dealing with virtually every department and public policy area.
Information on boards and commissions
Serving on a board or commission
Search for a board or commission
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Massachusetts State House, 24 Beacon Street, Room 271-M, Boston, MA 02133
Call Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at 617-725-4010
Email Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at appointments.governor@mass.gov
Specific board and commission applications
You can apply to all boards using the general form above. Some boards have specific applications, which can be found below.
Housing and Redevelopment Authority Survey
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Massachusetts State House, 24 Beacon Street, Room 271-M, Boston, MA 02133
Call Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at 617-725-4010
Email Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at appointments.governor@mass.gov
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Non-Profits & Charities
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division is responsible for overseeing more than 25,000 public charities in Massachusetts. It ensures appropriate application of charitable assets, investigates allegations and initiates enforcement actions in cases of breach of fiduciary duty, and supports transparency through publication of filed reports and forms.  The Division also oversees paid fundraisers, including enforcement of registration and filing requirements and prosecution of solicitation fraud.
The Division announces two major changes to filing requirements.  First, effective immediately, the threshold for submitting an IRS Form 990 to the Division is increased from $5,000 to $25,000.  Second, beginning September 1, 2023, the Division will require all charitable registration and annual filings to be made through the Charity Portal; paper submissions will no longer be accepted after that date.
TEMPORARY EXTENSION:  In September, the IRS announced that it was extending the submission deadlines in the Commonwealth for a variety of individual and corporate tax filings, including the IRS Forms 990 filed by public charities.  To ensure that public charities submitting annual filings in the Commonwealth are not faced with conflicting deadlines, the Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division is issuing a similar temporary extension—any annual filings due to be filed with the AGO between September 15, 2023 and February 15, 2024 (including those already on extension to a date on or after September 15, 2023) will be considered timely filed with the AGO if they are filed on or before February 15, 2024.
Office of the Attorney General, Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
One Ashburton Place, Boston, MA 02108
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
Search Public Charities Annual Filings
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division information
Public Records Requests at the Attorney General's Office
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Libraries
Literacy, ESOL and Citizenship Programs
Find a Library in Massachusetts  I   Contact  I  FAQs
Explore historical records and maps, works of art and culture, and more!
Thousands of articles from newspapers, magazines, journals, and more.
Get access to Library eBooks and Audiobooks from across Massachusetts
Free Virtual Events at Local Libraries
Find free virtual events from libraries across Massachusetts
In Massachusetts? Share Your Location
Find historical documents, photo sets, and artwork ready to be browsed for research and inspiration.
Explore the Digital Commonwealth & Digital Public Library of America
Access a shared statewide collection of millions of books, audiobooks, DVDs, CDs, and more - plus a growing eBook library.
Choose a library near you to find hours, directions, your catalog, and more local resources.
Enter a library name, part of a name, or a city or town in Massachusetts (e.g., Forbes Library or Northampton) or a zip code.
Libraries with Literacy, ESOL, and Citizenship ProgramsSummer Reading
This site is maintained by the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners and is funded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, a federal agency that fosters innovation, leadership, and a lifetime of learning.
Google Translate
Attribution Requirements  |  Cloud Translation  |  Google Cloud
Accelerate your digital transformation
Whether your business is early in its journey or well on its way to digital transformation, Google Cloud can help solve your toughest challenges.
Top reasons businesses choose us.
Run your apps wherever you need them.
Build on the same infrastructure as Google.
Make smarter decisions with unified data.
Scale with open, flexible technology.
Keep your data secure and compliant.
Connect your teams with AI-powered apps.
Read what industry analysts say about us.
Browse and download popular whitepapers.
Reduce cost, increase operational agility, and capture new market opportunities.
Analytics and collaboration tools for the retail value chain.
Solutions for CPG digital transformation and brand growth.
Computing, data management, and analytics tools for financial services.
Advance research at scale and empower healthcare innovation.
Solutions for content production and distribution operations.
Hybrid and multi-cloud services to deploy and monetize 5G.
AI-driven solutions to build and scale games faster.
Migration and AI tools to optimize the manufacturing value chain.
Enable sustainable, efficient, and resilient data-driven operations across supply chain and logistics operations.
Data storage, AI, and analytics solutions for government agencies.
Teaching tools to provide more engaging learning experiences.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Assess, plan, implement, and measure software practices and capabilities to modernize and simplify your organization’s business application portfolios.
Program that uses DORA to improve your software delivery capabilities.
Modernize Traditional Applications
Analyze, categorize, and get started with cloud migration on traditional workloads.
Migrate from PaaS: Cloud Foundry, Openshift
Tools for moving your existing containers into Google's managed container services.
Automated tools and prescriptive guidance for moving your mainframe apps to the cloud.
Software supply chain best practices - innerloop productivity, CI/CD and S3C.
Processes and resources for implementing DevOps in your org.
Tools and resources for adopting SRE in your org.
Tools and guidance for effective GKE management and monitoring.
Best practices for running reliable, performant, and cost effective applications on GKE.
Guidance for localized and low latency apps on Google’s hardware agnostic edge solution.
Manage workloads across multiple clouds with a consistent platform.
Fully managed environment for developing, deploying and scaling apps.
Add intelligence and efficiency to your business with AI and machine learning.
AI model for speaking with customers and assisting human agents.
Document processing and data capture automated at scale.
Google-quality search and product recommendations for retailers.
Speed up the pace of innovation without coding, using APIs, apps, and automation.
Attract and empower an ecosystem of developers and partners.
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Cloud services for extending and modernizing legacy apps.
Simplify and accelerate secure delivery of open banking compliant APIs.
Migrate and manage enterprise data with security, reliability, high availability, and fully managed data services.
Guides and tools to simplify your database migration life cycle.
Upgrades to modernize your operational database infrastructure.
Build global, live games with Google Cloud databases.
Database services to migrate, manage, and modernize data.
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
Rehost, replatform, rewrite your Oracle workloads.
Fully managed open source databases with enterprise-grade support.
Options for running SQL Server virtual machines on Google Cloud.
Unify data across your organization with an open and simplified approach to data-driven transformation that is unmatched for speed, scale, and security with AI built-in.
Migrate and manage enterprise data with security, reliability, high availability, and fully managed data services.
Generate instant insights from data at any scale with a serverless, fully managed analytics platform that significantly simplifies analytics.
Add intelligence and efficiency to your business with AI and machine learning.
Innovate, optimize and amplify your SaaS applications using Google's data and machine learning solutions such as BigQuery, Looker, Spanner and Vertex AI.
An initiative to ensure that global businesses have more seamless access and insights into the data required for digital transformation.
Accelerate business recovery and ensure a better future with solutions that enable hybrid and multi-cloud, generate intelligent insights, and keep your workers connected.
Reimagine your operations and unlock new opportunities.
Prioritize investments and optimize costs.
Get work done more safely and securely.
COVID-19 Solutions for the Healthcare Industry
How Google is helping healthcare meet extraordinary challenges.
Migrate quickly with solutions for SAP, VMware, Windows, Oracle, and other workloads.
Discovery and analysis tools for moving to the cloud.
Certifications for running SAP applications and SAP HANA.
Compute, storage, and networking options to support any workload.
Tools and partners for running Windows workloads.
Migration solutions for VMs, apps, databases, and more.
Automatic cloud resource optimization and increased security.
Remote work solutions for desktops and applications (VDI & DaaS).
End-to-end migration program to simplify your path to the cloud.
Ensure your business continuity needs are met.
Google and Red Hat provide an enterprise-grade platform for traditional on-prem and custom applications.
Change the way teams work with solutions designed for humans and built for impact.
Collaboration and productivity tools for enterprises.
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
ChromeOS, Chrome Browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Enterprise search for employees to quickly find company information.
Detect, investigate, and respond to online threats to help protect your business.
Security Analytics and Operations
Solution for analyzing petabytes of security telemetry.
Threat and fraud protection for your web applications and APIs.
Security and Resilience Framework
Solutions for each phase of the security and resilience life cycle.
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Solution to modernize your governance, risk, and compliance function with automation.
Solution for improving end-to-end software supply chain security.
Recommended products to help achieve a strong security posture.
Generate instant insights from data at any scale with a serverless, fully managed analytics platform that significantly simplifies analytics.
Data warehouse to jumpstart your migration and unlock insights.
Services for building and modernizing your data lake.
Run and write Spark where you need it, serverless and integrated.
Insights from ingesting, processing, and analyzing event streams.
Solutions for modernizing your BI stack and creating rich data experiences.
Put your data to work with Data Science on Google Cloud.
Solutions for collecting, analyzing, and activating customer data.
Solutions for building a more prosperous and sustainable business.
Data from Google, public, and commercial providers to enrich your analytics and AI initiatives.
Accelerate startup and SMB growth with tailored solutions and programs.
Grow your startup and solve your toughest challenges using Google’s proven technology.
Get financial, business, and technical support to take your startup to the next level.
Explore solutions for web hosting, app development, AI, and analytics.
Build better SaaS products, scale efficiently, and grow your business.
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
Data warehouse for business agility and insights.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Unified platform for ML models and generative AI.
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Relational database services for MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.
Command-line tools and libraries for Google Cloud.
Content delivery network for delivering web and video.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Unified platform for ML models and generative AI.
Build, tune, and deploy foundation models on Vertex AI.
Vertex AI Search and Conversation
Generative AI apps for search and conversational AI.
Lifelike conversational AI with state-of-the-art virtual agents.
Sentiment analysis and classification of unstructured text.
Speech recognition and transcription across 125 languages.
Speech synthesis in 220+ voices and 40+ languages.
Language detection, translation, and glossary support.
Document processing and data capture automated at scale.
Custom and pre-trained models to detect emotion, text, and more.
AI model for speaking with customers and assisting human agents.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all AI and machine learning products
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Interactive data suite for dashboarding, reporting, and analytics.
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
GPUs for ML, scientific computing, and 3D visualization.
Server and virtual machine migration to Compute Engine.
Compute instances for batch jobs and fault-tolerant workloads.
Fully managed service for scheduling batch jobs.
Dedicated hardware for compliance, licensing, and management.
Infrastructure to run specialized workloads on Google Cloud.
Usage recommendations for Google Cloud products and services.
Fully managed, native VMware Cloud Foundation software stack.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Solution for running build steps in a Docker container.
Package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Containers with data science frameworks, libraries, and tools.
Components to create Kubernetes-native cloud-based software.
Data warehouse for business agility and insights.
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Streaming analytics for stream and batch processing.
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Service for running Apache Spark and Apache Hadoop clusters.
Data integration for building and managing data pipelines.
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Service to prepare data for analysis and machine learning.
Intelligent data fabric for unifying data management across silos.
Build, version control, and deploy SQL workflows in BigQuery.
Service for securely and efficiently exchanging data analytics assets.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Fully managed, PostgreSQL-compatible database for enterprise workloads.
Fully managed database for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server.
Cloud-native document database for building rich mobile, web, and IoT apps.
Cloud-native relational database with unlimited scale and 99.999% availability.
Cloud-native wide-column database for large-scale, low-latency workloads.
Serverless change data capture and replication service.
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Fully managed infrastructure for your Oracle workloads.
Fully managed Redis and Memcached for sub-millisecond data access.
Universal package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Continuous integration and continuous delivery platform.
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Service for creating and managing Google Cloud resources.
Command-line tools and libraries for Google Cloud.
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Private Git repository to store, manage, and track code.
Automate infrastructure management with Terraform.
Managed and secure development environments in the cloud.
AI-powered collaborator available across Google Cloud and your IDE.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Distributed cloud services for edge workloads.
Distributed cloud for air-gapped workloads.
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
API management, development, and security platform.
Tool to move workloads and existing applications to GKE.
Traffic control pane and management for open service mesh.
Service for executing builds on Google Cloud infrastructure.
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Fully managed solutions for the edge and data centers.
Detect suspicious, potential money laundering activity with AI.
Solution for bridging existing care systems and apps on Google Cloud.
Gain a 360-degree patient view with connected Fitbit data on Google Cloud.
Ready to use cloud-native automation for telecom networks.
Telecom data management and analytics with an automated approach.
Ingests data to improve subscriber acquisition and retention.
Controls fundamental access to the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS).
Connect to 3rd party apps and enable data consistency without code.
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Task management service for asynchronous task execution.
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Service for running Apache Spark and Apache Hadoop clusters.
Data integration for building and managing data pipelines.
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Build an event-driven architecture that can connect any service.
Interactive shell environment with a built-in command line.
Web-based interface for managing and monitoring cloud apps.
Deployment and development management for APIs on Google Cloud.
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Programmatic interfaces for  Google Cloud services.
Service catalog for admins managing internal enterprise solutions.
Tools for monitoring, controlling, and optimizing your costs.
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Dashboard to view and export Google Cloud carbon emissions reports.
Kubernetes add-on for managing Google Cloud resources.
Tools for easily managing performance, security, and cost.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Geospatial platform for Earth observation data and analysis.
Create immersive location experiences and improve business operations.
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Service to convert live video and package for streaming.
Open source render manager for visual effects and animation.
Convert video files and package them for optimized delivery.
Service for dynamic or server side ad insertion.
Unified platform for migrating and modernizing with Google Cloud.
App migration to the cloud for low-cost refresh cycles.
Components for migrating VMs and physical servers to Compute Engine.
Reference templates for Deployment Manager and Terraform.
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Data import service for scheduling and moving data into BigQuery.
End-to-end migration program to simplify your path to the cloud.
Storage server for moving large volumes of data to Google Cloud.
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
Migrate and run your VMware workloads natively on Google Cloud.
Hosts, renders, and streams 3D and XR experiences.
Security policies and defense against web and DDoS attacks.
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Domain name system for reliable and low-latency name lookups.
Service for distributing traffic across applications and regions.
NAT service for giving private instances internet access.
Connectivity options for VPN, peering, and enterprise needs.
Connectivity management to help simplify and scale networks.
Network monitoring, verification, and optimization platform.
Cloud network options  based on performance, availability, and cost.
Single VPC for an entire organization, isolated within projects.
Secure connection between your VPC and services.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Google Cloud audit, platform, and application logs management.
Infrastructure and application health with rich metrics.
Application error identification and analysis.
Real-time application state inspection and in -production debugging.
Tracing system collecting latency data from applications.
CPU and heap profiler for analyzing application performance.
No-code development platform to build and extend applications.
Build automations and applications on a unified platform.
Collaboration and productivity tools for individuals and organizations.
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Embeds generative AI across Google Workspace apps.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
ChromeOS, Chrome browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Compliance and security controls for sensitive workloads.
Manage encryption keys on Google Cloud.
Encrypt data in use with Confidential VMs.
Platform for defending against threats to your Google Cloud assets.
Discover, classify, and protect your valuable data assets.
Cybersecurity technology and expertise from the frontlines.
Help protect your website from fraudulent activity, spam, and abuse.
Detect, investigate, and respond to cyber threats.
Store API keys, passwords, certificates, and other sensitive data.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all security and identity products
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Platform for creating functions that respond to cloud events.
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
Develop, deploy, secure, and manage APIs with a fully managed gateway.
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
Service for centralized, application-consistent data protection.
File storage that is highly scalable and secure.
Block storage for virtual machine instances running on Google Cloud.
Object storage for storing and serving user-generated content.
Block storage that is locally attached for high-performance needs.
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
High performance, managed parallel file service.
File storage service for NFS, SMB, and multi-protocol environments.
Fully managed node hosting for developing on the blockchain.
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
Google Cloud's pay-as-you-go pricing offers automatic savings based on monthly usage and discounted rates for prepaid resources. Contact us today to get a quote.
Pay only for what you use with no lock-in.
Explore products with free monthly usage.
Get best practices to optimize workload costs.
Tools to monitor and control your costs.
See full price list with 100+ products
$300 in free credits and 20+ free products.
Learn more about cloud computing topics.
Read our latest product news and stories.
Grow your career with role-based learning
Enroll in on-demand or classroom training.
Prepare and register for certifications.
Get reference architectures and best practices.
Join Google Cloud's developer program.
Stay in the know and stay connected.
Browse upcoming and on demand events.
Ask questions, find answers, and connect.
Work with our experts on cloud projects.
Deploy ready-to-go solutions in a few clicks.
Explore benefits of working with a partner.
Join the Partner Advantage program.
Create a custom model (Advanced v3)
Translate textList supported languagesDetect language
Translate textBatch translate textTranslate documents
Creating and using glossariesGlossary stopwords
Prepare training dataAutoML Translate overviewCreate and manage datasetsCreate and manage modelsEvaluate models
Request adaptive translationsManage datasets (API only)List supported languagesDetect languageRomanize textTranslating text from a photoLong-running operations
Control access (Advanced edition)
Translation audit logging information
Accelerate your digital transformation
Modernize Traditional Applications
Migrate from PaaS&#58; Cloud Foundry, Openshift
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
COVID-19 Solutions for the Healthcare Industry
Security Analytics and Operations
Security and Resilience Framework
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Vertex AI Search and Conversation
See all AI and machine learning products
See all security and identity products
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
See full price list with 100+ products
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Cloud Translation is available to anyone wishing to perform integration between
Google Translate and their own site or application.
the Terms of Service. Among other things, these Terms require
that you adhere to certain guidelines on how lay out, Google attribution, and
branding must be handled on your site. This document and the
HTML Markup Requirements are intended to help you meet
These branding guidelines may change from time to time, and without prior notice
from Google. Your continued use of the Cloud Translation API is contingent upon your
adherence to the current branding guidelines. If you are uncomfortable with any
of these branding guidelines, discontinue your use of the API, and
The purpose of Cloud Translation is to help make content accessible to users in
their own language. Therefore, there are certain attribution and linking
requirements. The following basic principles govern your use of
Adherence to these guidelines is required before using the Cloud Translation API from
Whenever you display translation results from Google Translate directly to
users, you must make it clear to users that they are viewing automatic
translations from Google Translate using the appropriate text or brand
Applications using the Cloud Translation API must state in the application description
and help documentation that Google Translate is used to power translation
within the application and provide links to the Cloud Translation site.
If unaltered translation results are displayed on web pages that can be
indexed by search engines, you are required to designate the translated text
as machine translated content using the
To help us ensure a consistent end user experience and accurate expectation of
Google Translate features, you must abide by certain naming conventions.
When creating a product utilizing the Cloud Translation API, the name of the product
cannot use Google, Google Translate, or other Google Brand Features in the name
of the software. If, for marketing or other strategic reasons, it would be
valuable to reference Google Translate, it may be permissible for the developer
to use, for example, the phrase "Acme Plugin for Google Translate." This should
be the exception, and not the rule. However, never use, for example, "Google
Translate AcmeOPAC Plugin." You may not state or otherwise imply any affiliation
It may occasionally be necessary to refer to Google Translate or features
provided through the API (e.g., in documentation, headers, buttons).
When doing so, you must only use approved terminology:
Google Translate service: Use only the term "Google Translate" to refer
to the service made available through these APIs and at URLs such as
http://translate.google.com. Do not modify this word mark,
for example, through hyphenation, combination abbreviation, or acronym such
as: Google-Translate, GT, GoogTrans, GTrans, etc.
Cloud Translation API: Use only the term "Cloud Translation API" to refer to the set of
developer-facing features described within the
Cloud Translation API Documentation. Refer to specific APIs
and tools using the terminology from this site.
If you wish to refer to Cloud Translation features in a language other than
English, you must do so using the same terminology as the Google Translate Site, which is available in over 50 languages.
For more questions about other uses of Google Brand Features, see
http://www.google.com/permissions/guidelines.html
In addition to following Google's general
Brand Features guidelines, you are also required
to adopt certain branding elements when using the Cloud Translation API. These forms of
attribution are used in order to maintain consistency and preserve the Google
The following basic principles govern use of the Google name and logo in
conjunction with the Cloud Translation API:
The Google name and logo should be associated with Google Translate only.
The Google logo may never appear next to or on the same page with the logos of
competing web or other search services. There are no exceptions to this rule.
The "powered by Google Translate" graphic must always be displayed adjacent
You shall display all intellectual property rights legends and
notices (e.g., copyright notices) as instructed by Google.
Your application may display, in response to a user's action, translation
results obtained from the Cloud Translation API. Whenever you display such information,
you must include attribution to Google using one of the badges below.
Attribution badges on web pages must link to
http://translate.google.com. You can
download a zip file of the badges here.
The version of the attribution using the full-color Google logo is preferred,
but depending on your application or website's layout and color-scheme, you must
use one of these visual attribution styles:
The samples below show attributions within a mobile application:
The button or user action that triggers a translation should be clearly labeled
Using the Cloud Translation API, it is possible to issue a call to Google Translate
directly from your site. The buttons or links you use in conjunction to these
features must include proper attribution to Google.
You must also adhere to the Google-wide
Guidelines for Third Party Use of Google Brand Features
Use of the buttons, stickers, and branding elements described in this document
is governed by the Cloud Translation API Terms of Service
Do not change any of the Google marks in any way. Do not remove, obstruct,
distort, or alter any element of a Google Translate trademark. This includes
modifying the Google word marks, for example, through hyphenation, combination
abbreviation, or acronym such as: Google Translate, GT, GoogTrans, etc.
Make sure the button, sticker, or other branding element is full and clearly
visible, never altered or partially covered.
Do not use the buttons, stickers, or other branding elements in ways that (1)
imply an association with or endorsement of any other product, service, event,
sponsorship, or organization; (2) can be reasonably interpreted to suggest
editorial content was authored by Google; or (3) represent the views or
opinions of Google personnel without prior written permission from Google. All
of the previously mentioned usages must be approved via written permission.
Do not adopt marks, logos, slogans, or designs that are confusingly similar to
the Google trademarks or imitate Google's trade dress, including the look and
feel of Google Translate web design properties, Google Translate brand
packaging, distinctive color combinations, typography, graphic designs,
product icons, or imagery associated with Google Translate.
Do not register Google trademarks as second-level domain names or incorporate
Google trademarks into your own product name, service names, trademarks,
Never display a Google trademark in a manner that is misleading, unfair,
defamatory, infringing, libelous, disparaging, obscene, or otherwise
Never display a Google Translate trademark on any web site or user interface
that contains or displays adult content, promotes gambling, promotes violence,
contains hate speech, involves the sale of tobacco or alcohol to persons under
21 years of age, violates other applicable laws or regulations or is
If you display the results of the Translation API to your end users without
modification, you must make the following disclaimer available on your web site
THIS SERVICE MAY CONTAIN TRANSLATIONS POWERED BY GOOGLE. GOOGLE
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES RELATED TO THE TRANSLATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES OF ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
If you are using the Translation API to make the content of a website available
in more languages, you might also include an additional disclaimer:
The <company name> website has been translated for your
convenience using translation software powered by Google Translate. Reasonable
efforts have been made to provide an accurate translation, however, no automated
translation is perfect nor is it intended to replace human translators.
Translations are provided as a service to users of the <company name>
website, and are provided "as is." No warranty of any kind, either expressed or
implied, is made as to the accuracy, reliability, or correctness of any
translations made from <source language> into any other language. Some
content (such as images, videos, Flash, etc.) may not be accurately translated
due to the limitations of the translation software.
The official text is the <source language> version of the
website. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not
binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any
questions arise related to the accuracy of the information contained in the
translated website, refer to the <source language> version of the
website which is the official version.
Note that this example is for illustrative purposes only. We encourage
you to consult your legal advisor about any additional disclaimers.
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Productivity & work transformation
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
General Law - Part I, Title IX, Chapter 64E, Section 12
The 193rd General Court of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Use MyLegislature to follow bills, hearings, and legislators that interest you.
Sign in with MyLegislature Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Learn More Here! »
MenuToggle navigation
Recent & Popular Bills
Browse Bills by City/Town
Browse General Laws
Search General Laws
Go to a General Law:
Go  to that General Law
Browse Session Laws
Search Session Laws
Go to a Session Law:
Massachusetts Constitution
Reports and Communications
House Ways & Means Budget
Senate Ways & Means Budget
Conference Committee
Find Your Legislators
Search Legislators
Legislative Leadership
Commonwealth Conversations
Clean Energy Future Tour
All Representatives
All Hearings & Events
Senate Committee Hearings
House Committee Hearings
Joint Committee Hearings
Committees & Commissions
Committee Hearings
Joint Committee Hearings
Senate Committee Hearings
House Committee Hearings
Visit the State House
Request Accessibility
Web Accessibility Policy
Accessibility Initiatives
Educational Opportunities
Student Government Day
Citizens' Legislative Seminar
Create Your Own Bill
ADMINISTRATION OF THE GOVERNMENT
TAXATION OF SPECIAL FUELS USED IN THE PROPULSION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Actions to restrain collection on sales exempted under federal law
Search the Legislature
Go Directly to a General Law
Section 12: Actions to restrain collection on sales exempted under federal law
Section 12. The supreme judicial or the superior court shall have jurisdiction in equity to restrain the collection, upon any sale exempted by the constitution and laws of the United States, of the excise imposed by this chapter. The bill shall be brought against the commissioner, whether the question of the collection of the excise is in the hands of the attorney general or pending before the appellate tax board or is still in the hands of the commissioner.
Site Information & Links
Helpful Massachusetts Links
Commonwealth Employment Opportunities
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Boards & Commissions
Non-Profits & Charities
Massachusetts General Laws
Find My Legislator
Visit the State House
Terms And Conditions
Copyright © 2024 The General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Register for MyLegislature
Register With An Existing Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Register With Your Email Address
Already have an account? Sign in here.
Sign in to MyLegislature
Sign In With Your Facebook or Google+ Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Sign In With Your MyLegislature Account
Not Registered? Click here.
Learn More Here! »
Please enter your email address. If there is an account associated with that address, a password reset link will be mailed to you.
This feature is exclusive to users ofMyLegislature
Search The Legislature
Search the Legislature
Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Show the sub topics of
Health & Social Services
Vital & Public Records
Show the sub topics of
Professional Licenses & Permits
Workers' Rights & Safety
Show the sub topics of
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Show the sub topics of
Show the sub topics of
Constitutionals & Independents
State Offices & Courts A-Z
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Child Support Enforcement
Show the sub topics of
Health & Social Services
Vital & Public Records
Show the sub topics of
Professional Licenses & Permits
Workers' Rights & Safety
Show the sub topics of
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Show the sub topics of
Show the sub topics of
Constitutionals & Independents
State Offices & Courts A-Z
Welcome to Massachusetts
What would you like to do?
Apply for unemployment benefits
Renew your driver's license
Buy Fishing or Hunting Licenses
Search court dockets, calendars, and cases
Login to your MassHealth account
Office of Jury Commissioner
SNAP benefits (formerly food stamps)
Child Support Enforcement
Paid Family and Medical Leave
Massachusetts Data Hub
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Housing and Livable Communities launches effort to fight housing discrimination
Campaign aims to empower those with housing vouchers
Tips and reminders for safe ways to stay warm this winter
Winter storm safety tips
Be prepared for cold weather and winter storms
Follow Us on Social Media:
Follow Mass.gov on Facebook
Follow Mass.gov on X, formerly Twitter
Follow Mass.gov on LinkedIn
Follow Mass.gov on Youtube
Follow Mass.gov on Instagram
Follow Mass.gov on Threads
Public Records Requests
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov Privacy Policy
Commonwealth Employment Opportunities
Effective May 11, 2023, Executive Order #595 requiring Executive Department employees to verify COVID-19 vaccination has been rescinded. Positions posted on this site prior to the date of rescission may continue to contain outdated references to Executive Order #595, please disregard these references following May 11.
Due to Federal and State regulations, positions in certain health care and human services settings may continue to require COVID-19 vaccination or approval for an exemption, as a condition of employment. Finalists for these positions will be provided details about the verification or exemption process. Candidates with questions on vaccination requirements should contact the diversity officer listed on the posting for additional information.
The action cannot be completed. Cookies are not enabled on your browser.  Please enable cookies in your browser preferences and refresh your browser to continue. Privacy Agreement MassCareers Online Job Applications
The Human Resources Division of the Executive Office of Administration and Finance ("HRD") manages the MassCareers online job application and onboarding tool.  Through this application, HRD collects a range of highly personal information voluntarily provided by users.  Unless otherwise required by law (including public records law), HRD will use this information solely for hiring, payroll, and other human resources purposes.  HRD also makes this information available to other agencies or entities that are part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, but will require any entity receiving this information to agree to the same restrictions on its use.  Upon hire, employee information that falls under the definition of public records may be published on one or more Commonwealth websites. Victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or rape and victims of an adjudicated crime may request that their information remain private. Similarly, eligible family members of victims may request that their information remain private.
In the event of misuse of the system, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts reserves the right to suspend or delete an applicant’s account or access to MassCareers.   Applicants who have accounts that are suspended or deleted will be notified and given the opportunity to submit future applications for positions through an alternative means.
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Mass DOT
Massachusetts Department of Transportation | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Professional Licenses & Permits
Early Childhood Education & Care
Elementary & Secondary Schools
For Educators & Administrators
Constitutionals & Independents
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Access your E-ZPass MA account
Pay your Pay By Plate MA invoice
Find RMV services and information
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Our mission is to deliver excellent customer service to people traveling in the Commonwealth by providing transportation infrastructure which is safe, reliable, robust and resilient. We work to provide a transportation system which can strengthen the state’s economy and improve the quality of life for all.
Construction projects and planning studies
Pay your tolls - E-ZPass and Pay by Plate
MyRMV - Complete RMV transactions online
Work for MassDOT, find job opportunities
Live cameras and real-time traffic conditions
10 Park Plaza, Suite 4160, Boston, MA 02116
This line is open 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., M-F
This line is open 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., M-F
For those who need accessible services
Contact MassDOT - Report Issues
Sign up for news & project updates
At MassDOT, transportation is not about roads and bridges, or trains and buses – it is about people. Our mission begins with customers - individuals, businesses, cities and towns, and regional transit agencies. We support programs and projects that deliver a high return on investment. We partner with cities and towns, public agencies, and private sector businesses. MassDOT supports the economic, quality of life, and environmental goals of the Commonwealth.
Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
Diversity & Civil Rights in Transportation
Travel Service Plazas & Tourist Information Centers
Register and Title Your Vehicle
Passenger (Class D) Driver's Licenses
Self-Driving Systems in Massachusetts
Damage Caused by Roadway Defects
Congestion in the Commonwealth
Shared Streets and Spaces Grant Program
Local Bottleneck Reduction Program
Complete Streets Funding Program
Municipal Small Bridge Program
Massachusetts Traffic Incident Management Responder Training
OIG Confidential Fraud, Waste and Abuse Reporting Hotline
GIS Maps, Transportation Data, and Reports
Financial Statements and Reports
Research and Technology Transfer
Traffic Volume and Classification in Massachusetts
Regulatory Review for MassDOT Divisions
Transportation Dispute Resolution
Public records requests for the Department of Transportation
Office of Real Estate & Economic Development at MassDOT
MassDOT Transportation Planning
Healey-Driscoll Administration Issues Safety Reminders Ahead of Anticipated Winter Storm
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Weather experts anticipate the first widespread, accumulating snow event of the season
MassDOT Expands Multimodal Connectivity Across Massachusetts with 20 Miles of Shared Use Paths Opened in 2023
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
25 additional miles expected to open by end of 2024
MassDOT Announces the Winners of the “Name A Snowplow” Contest
Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Competition for Elementary and Middle School Students Helps Recognize the Dedication of Public Works Employees During the Winter Season
See all news and announcements
for the Massachusetts Department of Transportation > Organization Sections > Content
2024 Student Yard Sign Design Contest
Prequalification Committee Meeting, January 17, 2024
Meeting of the MassDOT Board of Directors - January 2024
10 Park Plaza, MassDOT Board Room, Boston, MA 02116
Wednesday, January 17, 2024 at 12 p.m.
Monthly meeting of the MassDOT Board of Directors
Safe Routes to School Webinar for Municipalities
for the Massachusetts Department of Transportation
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Boards & Commissions
Appointments to Boards and Commissions | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Early Childhood Education & Care
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Appointments to Boards and Commissions
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
This page, Appointments to Boards and Commissions, is
Governor Maura Healey and Lt. Governor Kim Driscoll
Appointments to Boards and Commissions
Serving on a board or commission is an important way to make a positive difference and get involved in local and state government.
The Healey-Driscoll administration believes government works best when constituents are involved and engaged in their communities. The Governor's office appoints constituents to more than 700 boards and commissions dealing with virtually every department and public policy area.
Information on boards and commissions
Serving on a board or commission
Search for a board or commission
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Massachusetts State House, 24 Beacon Street, Room 271-M, Boston, MA 02133
Call Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at 617-725-4010
Email Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at appointments.governor@mass.gov
Specific board and commission applications
You can apply to all boards using the general form above. Some boards have specific applications, which can be found below.
Housing and Redevelopment Authority Survey
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions
Massachusetts State House, 24 Beacon Street, Room 271-M, Boston, MA 02133
Call Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at 617-725-4010
Email Governor’s Office, Boards and Commissions at appointments.governor@mass.gov
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll. Please limit your input to 500 characters.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact Governor Healey and Lt. Governor Driscoll.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Non-Profits & Charities
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division | Mass.gov
An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
The Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division is responsible for overseeing more than 25,000 public charities in Massachusetts. It ensures appropriate application of charitable assets, investigates allegations and initiates enforcement actions in cases of breach of fiduciary duty, and supports transparency through publication of filed reports and forms.  The Division also oversees paid fundraisers, including enforcement of registration and filing requirements and prosecution of solicitation fraud.
The Division announces two major changes to filing requirements.  First, effective immediately, the threshold for submitting an IRS Form 990 to the Division is increased from $5,000 to $25,000.  Second, beginning September 1, 2023, the Division will require all charitable registration and annual filings to be made through the Charity Portal; paper submissions will no longer be accepted after that date.
TEMPORARY EXTENSION:  In September, the IRS announced that it was extending the submission deadlines in the Commonwealth for a variety of individual and corporate tax filings, including the IRS Forms 990 filed by public charities.  To ensure that public charities submitting annual filings in the Commonwealth are not faced with conflicting deadlines, the Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division is issuing a similar temporary extension—any annual filings due to be filed with the AGO between September 15, 2023 and February 15, 2024 (including those already on extension to a date on or after September 15, 2023) will be considered timely filed with the AGO if they are filed on or before February 15, 2024.
Office of the Attorney General, Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
One Ashburton Place, Boston, MA 02108
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division
File a complaint about a charity or non-profit
Search Public Charities Annual Filings
The Attorney General's Non-Profit Organizations/Public Charities Division information
Public Records Requests at the Attorney General's Office
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
Please do not include personal or contact information.
The feedback will only be used for improving the website.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback.
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
© 2024 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Libraries
Literacy, ESOL and Citizenship Programs
Find a Library in Massachusetts  I   Contact  I  FAQs
Explore historical records and maps, works of art and culture, and more!
Thousands of articles from newspapers, magazines, journals, and more.
Get access to Library eBooks and Audiobooks from across Massachusetts
Free Virtual Events at Local Libraries
Find free virtual events from libraries across Massachusetts
In Massachusetts? Share Your Location
Find historical documents, photo sets, and artwork ready to be browsed for research and inspiration.
Explore the Digital Commonwealth & Digital Public Library of America
Access a shared statewide collection of millions of books, audiobooks, DVDs, CDs, and more - plus a growing eBook library.
Choose a library near you to find hours, directions, your catalog, and more local resources.
Enter a library name, part of a name, or a city or town in Massachusetts (e.g., Forbes Library or Northampton) or a zip code.
Libraries with Literacy, ESOL, and Citizenship ProgramsSummer Reading
This site is maintained by the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners and is funded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, a federal agency that fosters innovation, leadership, and a lifetime of learning.
Google Translate
Attribution Requirements  |  Cloud Translation  |  Google Cloud
Accelerate your digital transformation
Whether your business is early in its journey or well on its way to digital transformation, Google Cloud can help solve your toughest challenges.
Top reasons businesses choose us.
Run your apps wherever you need them.
Build on the same infrastructure as Google.
Make smarter decisions with unified data.
Scale with open, flexible technology.
Keep your data secure and compliant.
Connect your teams with AI-powered apps.
Read what industry analysts say about us.
Browse and download popular whitepapers.
Reduce cost, increase operational agility, and capture new market opportunities.
Analytics and collaboration tools for the retail value chain.
Solutions for CPG digital transformation and brand growth.
Computing, data management, and analytics tools for financial services.
Advance research at scale and empower healthcare innovation.
Solutions for content production and distribution operations.
Hybrid and multi-cloud services to deploy and monetize 5G.
AI-driven solutions to build and scale games faster.
Migration and AI tools to optimize the manufacturing value chain.
Enable sustainable, efficient, and resilient data-driven operations across supply chain and logistics operations.
Data storage, AI, and analytics solutions for government agencies.
Teaching tools to provide more engaging learning experiences.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Assess, plan, implement, and measure software practices and capabilities to modernize and simplify your organization’s business application portfolios.
Program that uses DORA to improve your software delivery capabilities.
Modernize Traditional Applications
Analyze, categorize, and get started with cloud migration on traditional workloads.
Migrate from PaaS: Cloud Foundry, Openshift
Tools for moving your existing containers into Google's managed container services.
Automated tools and prescriptive guidance for moving your mainframe apps to the cloud.
Software supply chain best practices - innerloop productivity, CI/CD and S3C.
Processes and resources for implementing DevOps in your org.
Tools and resources for adopting SRE in your org.
Tools and guidance for effective GKE management and monitoring.
Best practices for running reliable, performant, and cost effective applications on GKE.
Guidance for localized and low latency apps on Google’s hardware agnostic edge solution.
Manage workloads across multiple clouds with a consistent platform.
Fully managed environment for developing, deploying and scaling apps.
Add intelligence and efficiency to your business with AI and machine learning.
AI model for speaking with customers and assisting human agents.
Document processing and data capture automated at scale.
Google-quality search and product recommendations for retailers.
Speed up the pace of innovation without coding, using APIs, apps, and automation.
Attract and empower an ecosystem of developers and partners.
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Cloud services for extending and modernizing legacy apps.
Simplify and accelerate secure delivery of open banking compliant APIs.
Migrate and manage enterprise data with security, reliability, high availability, and fully managed data services.
Guides and tools to simplify your database migration life cycle.
Upgrades to modernize your operational database infrastructure.
Build global, live games with Google Cloud databases.
Database services to migrate, manage, and modernize data.
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
Rehost, replatform, rewrite your Oracle workloads.
Fully managed open source databases with enterprise-grade support.
Options for running SQL Server virtual machines on Google Cloud.
Unify data across your organization with an open and simplified approach to data-driven transformation that is unmatched for speed, scale, and security with AI built-in.
Migrate and manage enterprise data with security, reliability, high availability, and fully managed data services.
Generate instant insights from data at any scale with a serverless, fully managed analytics platform that significantly simplifies analytics.
Add intelligence and efficiency to your business with AI and machine learning.
Innovate, optimize and amplify your SaaS applications using Google's data and machine learning solutions such as BigQuery, Looker, Spanner and Vertex AI.
An initiative to ensure that global businesses have more seamless access and insights into the data required for digital transformation.
Accelerate business recovery and ensure a better future with solutions that enable hybrid and multi-cloud, generate intelligent insights, and keep your workers connected.
Reimagine your operations and unlock new opportunities.
Prioritize investments and optimize costs.
Get work done more safely and securely.
COVID-19 Solutions for the Healthcare Industry
How Google is helping healthcare meet extraordinary challenges.
Migrate quickly with solutions for SAP, VMware, Windows, Oracle, and other workloads.
Discovery and analysis tools for moving to the cloud.
Certifications for running SAP applications and SAP HANA.
Compute, storage, and networking options to support any workload.
Tools and partners for running Windows workloads.
Migration solutions for VMs, apps, databases, and more.
Automatic cloud resource optimization and increased security.
Remote work solutions for desktops and applications (VDI & DaaS).
End-to-end migration program to simplify your path to the cloud.
Ensure your business continuity needs are met.
Google and Red Hat provide an enterprise-grade platform for traditional on-prem and custom applications.
Change the way teams work with solutions designed for humans and built for impact.
Collaboration and productivity tools for enterprises.
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
ChromeOS, Chrome Browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Enterprise search for employees to quickly find company information.
Detect, investigate, and respond to online threats to help protect your business.
Security Analytics and Operations
Solution for analyzing petabytes of security telemetry.
Threat and fraud protection for your web applications and APIs.
Security and Resilience Framework
Solutions for each phase of the security and resilience life cycle.
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Solution to modernize your governance, risk, and compliance function with automation.
Solution for improving end-to-end software supply chain security.
Recommended products to help achieve a strong security posture.
Generate instant insights from data at any scale with a serverless, fully managed analytics platform that significantly simplifies analytics.
Data warehouse to jumpstart your migration and unlock insights.
Services for building and modernizing your data lake.
Run and write Spark where you need it, serverless and integrated.
Insights from ingesting, processing, and analyzing event streams.
Solutions for modernizing your BI stack and creating rich data experiences.
Put your data to work with Data Science on Google Cloud.
Solutions for collecting, analyzing, and activating customer data.
Solutions for building a more prosperous and sustainable business.
Data from Google, public, and commercial providers to enrich your analytics and AI initiatives.
Accelerate startup and SMB growth with tailored solutions and programs.
Grow your startup and solve your toughest challenges using Google’s proven technology.
Get financial, business, and technical support to take your startup to the next level.
Explore solutions for web hosting, app development, AI, and analytics.
Build better SaaS products, scale efficiently, and grow your business.
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
Data warehouse for business agility and insights.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Unified platform for ML models and generative AI.
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Relational database services for MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.
Command-line tools and libraries for Google Cloud.
Content delivery network for delivering web and video.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Unified platform for ML models and generative AI.
Build, tune, and deploy foundation models on Vertex AI.
Vertex AI Search and Conversation
Generative AI apps for search and conversational AI.
Lifelike conversational AI with state-of-the-art virtual agents.
Sentiment analysis and classification of unstructured text.
Speech recognition and transcription across 125 languages.
Speech synthesis in 220+ voices and 40+ languages.
Language detection, translation, and glossary support.
Document processing and data capture automated at scale.
Custom and pre-trained models to detect emotion, text, and more.
AI model for speaking with customers and assisting human agents.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all AI and machine learning products
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Interactive data suite for dashboarding, reporting, and analytics.
Virtual machines running in Google’s data center.
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
GPUs for ML, scientific computing, and 3D visualization.
Server and virtual machine migration to Compute Engine.
Compute instances for batch jobs and fault-tolerant workloads.
Fully managed service for scheduling batch jobs.
Dedicated hardware for compliance, licensing, and management.
Infrastructure to run specialized workloads on Google Cloud.
Usage recommendations for Google Cloud products and services.
Fully managed, native VMware Cloud Foundation software stack.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Solution for running build steps in a Docker container.
Package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Containers with data science frameworks, libraries, and tools.
Components to create Kubernetes-native cloud-based software.
Data warehouse for business agility and insights.
Platform for BI, data applications, and embedded analytics.
Streaming analytics for stream and batch processing.
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Service for running Apache Spark and Apache Hadoop clusters.
Data integration for building and managing data pipelines.
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Service to prepare data for analysis and machine learning.
Intelligent data fabric for unifying data management across silos.
Build, version control, and deploy SQL workflows in BigQuery.
Service for securely and efficiently exchanging data analytics assets.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Fully managed, PostgreSQL-compatible database for enterprise workloads.
Fully managed database for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server.
Cloud-native document database for building rich mobile, web, and IoT apps.
Cloud-native relational database with unlimited scale and 99.999% availability.
Cloud-native wide-column database for large-scale, low-latency workloads.
Serverless change data capture and replication service.
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Fully managed infrastructure for your Oracle workloads.
Fully managed Redis and Memcached for sub-millisecond data access.
Universal package manager for build artifacts and dependencies.
IDE support to write, run, and debug Kubernetes applications.
Continuous integration and continuous delivery platform.
Fully managed continuous delivery to GKE and Cloud Run.
Service for creating and managing Google Cloud resources.
Command-line tools and libraries for Google Cloud.
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Private Git repository to store, manage, and track code.
Automate infrastructure management with Terraform.
Managed and secure development environments in the cloud.
AI-powered collaborator available across Google Cloud and your IDE.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Distributed cloud services for edge workloads.
Distributed cloud for air-gapped workloads.
Managed environment for running containerized apps.
API management, development, and security platform.
Tool to move workloads and existing applications to GKE.
Traffic control pane and management for open service mesh.
Service for executing builds on Google Cloud infrastructure.
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Fully managed solutions for the edge and data centers.
Detect suspicious, potential money laundering activity with AI.
Solution for bridging existing care systems and apps on Google Cloud.
Gain a 360-degree patient view with connected Fitbit data on Google Cloud.
Ready to use cloud-native automation for telecom networks.
Telecom data management and analytics with an automated approach.
Ingests data to improve subscriber acquisition and retention.
Controls fundamental access to the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS).
Connect to 3rd party apps and enable data consistency without code.
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
Manage the full life cycle of APIs anywhere with visibility and control.
Task management service for asynchronous task execution.
Cron job scheduler for task automation and management.
Service for running Apache Spark and Apache Hadoop clusters.
Data integration for building and managing data pipelines.
Workflow orchestration service built on Apache Airflow.
Messaging service for event ingestion and delivery.
Build an event-driven architecture that can connect any service.
Interactive shell environment with a built-in command line.
Web-based interface for managing and monitoring cloud apps.
Deployment and development management for APIs on Google Cloud.
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Programmatic interfaces for  Google Cloud services.
Service catalog for admins managing internal enterprise solutions.
Tools for monitoring, controlling, and optimizing your costs.
Monitoring, logging, and application performance suite.
Dashboard to view and export Google Cloud carbon emissions reports.
Kubernetes add-on for managing Google Cloud resources.
Tools for easily managing performance, security, and cost.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Geospatial platform for Earth observation data and analysis.
Create immersive location experiences and improve business operations.
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Service to convert live video and package for streaming.
Open source render manager for visual effects and animation.
Convert video files and package them for optimized delivery.
Service for dynamic or server side ad insertion.
Unified platform for migrating and modernizing with Google Cloud.
App migration to the cloud for low-cost refresh cycles.
Components for migrating VMs and physical servers to Compute Engine.
Reference templates for Deployment Manager and Terraform.
Serverless, minimal downtime migrations to Cloud SQL.
Components for migrating VMs into system containers on GKE.
Data import service for scheduling and moving data into BigQuery.
End-to-end migration program to simplify your path to the cloud.
Storage server for moving large volumes of data to Google Cloud.
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
Migrate and run your VMware workloads natively on Google Cloud.
Hosts, renders, and streams 3D and XR experiences.
Security policies and defense against web and DDoS attacks.
Content delivery network for serving web and video content.
Domain name system for reliable and low-latency name lookups.
Service for distributing traffic across applications and regions.
NAT service for giving private instances internet access.
Connectivity options for VPN, peering, and enterprise needs.
Connectivity management to help simplify and scale networks.
Network monitoring, verification, and optimization platform.
Cloud network options  based on performance, availability, and cost.
Single VPC for an entire organization, isolated within projects.
Secure connection between your VPC and services.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
Google Cloud audit, platform, and application logs management.
Infrastructure and application health with rich metrics.
Application error identification and analysis.
Real-time application state inspection and in -production debugging.
Tracing system collecting latency data from applications.
CPU and heap profiler for analyzing application performance.
No-code development platform to build and extend applications.
Build automations and applications on a unified platform.
Collaboration and productivity tools for individuals and organizations.
Secure video meetings and modern collaboration for teams.
Embeds generative AI across Google Workspace apps.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
ChromeOS, Chrome browser, and Chrome devices built for business.
Permissions management system for Google Cloud resources.
Compliance and security controls for sensitive workloads.
Manage encryption keys on Google Cloud.
Encrypt data in use with Confidential VMs.
Platform for defending against threats to your Google Cloud assets.
Discover, classify, and protect your valuable data assets.
Cybersecurity technology and expertise from the frontlines.
Help protect your website from fraudulent activity, spam, and abuse.
Detect, investigate, and respond to cyber threats.
Store API keys, passwords, certificates, and other sensitive data.
Unified platform for IT admins to manage user devices and apps.
Not seeing what you're looking for?
See all security and identity products
Fully managed environment for running containerized apps.
Platform for creating functions that respond to cloud events.
Serverless application platform for apps and back ends.
Workflow orchestration for serverless products and API services.
Develop, deploy, secure, and manage APIs with a fully managed gateway.
Object storage that’s secure, durable, and scalable.
Service for centralized, application-consistent data protection.
File storage that is highly scalable and secure.
Block storage for virtual machine instances running on Google Cloud.
Object storage for storing and serving user-generated content.
Block storage that is locally attached for high-performance needs.
Data transfers from online and on-premises sources to Cloud Storage.
High performance, managed parallel file service.
File storage service for NFS, SMB, and multi-protocol environments.
Fully managed node hosting for developing on the blockchain.
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
Google Cloud's pay-as-you-go pricing offers automatic savings based on monthly usage and discounted rates for prepaid resources. Contact us today to get a quote.
Pay only for what you use with no lock-in.
Explore products with free monthly usage.
Get best practices to optimize workload costs.
Tools to monitor and control your costs.
See full price list with 100+ products
$300 in free credits and 20+ free products.
Learn more about cloud computing topics.
Read our latest product news and stories.
Grow your career with role-based learning
Enroll in on-demand or classroom training.
Prepare and register for certifications.
Get reference architectures and best practices.
Join Google Cloud's developer program.
Stay in the know and stay connected.
Browse upcoming and on demand events.
Ask questions, find answers, and connect.
Work with our experts on cloud projects.
Deploy ready-to-go solutions in a few clicks.
Explore benefits of working with a partner.
Join the Partner Advantage program.
Create a custom model (Advanced v3)
Translate textList supported languagesDetect language
Translate textBatch translate textTranslate documents
Creating and using glossariesGlossary stopwords
Prepare training dataAutoML Translate overviewCreate and manage datasetsCreate and manage modelsEvaluate models
Request adaptive translationsManage datasets (API only)List supported languagesDetect languageRomanize textTranslating text from a photoLong-running operations
Control access (Advanced edition)
Translation audit logging information
Accelerate your digital transformation
Modernize Traditional Applications
Migrate from PaaS&#58; Cloud Foundry, Openshift
Unlocking Legacy Applications Using APIs
Migrate Oracle workloads to Google Cloud
COVID-19 Solutions for the Healthcare Industry
Security Analytics and Operations
Security and Resilience Framework
Risk and compliance as code (RCaC)
Vertex AI Search and Conversation
See all AI and machine learning products
See all security and identity products
Save money with our transparent approach to pricing
See full price list with 100+ products
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Cloud Translation is available to anyone wishing to perform integration between
Google Translate and their own site or application.
the Terms of Service. Among other things, these Terms require
that you adhere to certain guidelines on how lay out, Google attribution, and
branding must be handled on your site. This document and the
HTML Markup Requirements are intended to help you meet
These branding guidelines may change from time to time, and without prior notice
from Google. Your continued use of the Cloud Translation API is contingent upon your
adherence to the current branding guidelines. If you are uncomfortable with any
of these branding guidelines, discontinue your use of the API, and
The purpose of Cloud Translation is to help make content accessible to users in
their own language. Therefore, there are certain attribution and linking
requirements. The following basic principles govern your use of
Adherence to these guidelines is required before using the Cloud Translation API from
Whenever you display translation results from Google Translate directly to
users, you must make it clear to users that they are viewing automatic
translations from Google Translate using the appropriate text or brand
Applications using the Cloud Translation API must state in the application description
and help documentation that Google Translate is used to power translation
within the application and provide links to the Cloud Translation site.
If unaltered translation results are displayed on web pages that can be
indexed by search engines, you are required to designate the translated text
as machine translated content using the
To help us ensure a consistent end user experience and accurate expectation of
Google Translate features, you must abide by certain naming conventions.
When creating a product utilizing the Cloud Translation API, the name of the product
cannot use Google, Google Translate, or other Google Brand Features in the name
of the software. If, for marketing or other strategic reasons, it would be
valuable to reference Google Translate, it may be permissible for the developer
to use, for example, the phrase "Acme Plugin for Google Translate." This should
be the exception, and not the rule. However, never use, for example, "Google
Translate AcmeOPAC Plugin." You may not state or otherwise imply any affiliation
It may occasionally be necessary to refer to Google Translate or features
provided through the API (e.g., in documentation, headers, buttons).
When doing so, you must only use approved terminology:
Google Translate service: Use only the term "Google Translate" to refer
to the service made available through these APIs and at URLs such as
http://translate.google.com. Do not modify this word mark,
for example, through hyphenation, combination abbreviation, or acronym such
as: Google-Translate, GT, GoogTrans, GTrans, etc.
Cloud Translation API: Use only the term "Cloud Translation API" to refer to the set of
developer-facing features described within the
Cloud Translation API Documentation. Refer to specific APIs
and tools using the terminology from this site.
If you wish to refer to Cloud Translation features in a language other than
English, you must do so using the same terminology as the Google Translate Site, which is available in over 50 languages.
For more questions about other uses of Google Brand Features, see
http://www.google.com/permissions/guidelines.html
In addition to following Google's general
Brand Features guidelines, you are also required
to adopt certain branding elements when using the Cloud Translation API. These forms of
attribution are used in order to maintain consistency and preserve the Google
The following basic principles govern use of the Google name and logo in
conjunction with the Cloud Translation API:
The Google name and logo should be associated with Google Translate only.
The Google logo may never appear next to or on the same page with the logos of
competing web or other search services. There are no exceptions to this rule.
The "powered by Google Translate" graphic must always be displayed adjacent
You shall display all intellectual property rights legends and
notices (e.g., copyright notices) as instructed by Google.
Your application may display, in response to a user's action, translation
results obtained from the Cloud Translation API. Whenever you display such information,
you must include attribution to Google using one of the badges below.
Attribution badges on web pages must link to
http://translate.google.com. You can
download a zip file of the badges here.
The version of the attribution using the full-color Google logo is preferred,
but depending on your application or website's layout and color-scheme, you must
use one of these visual attribution styles:
The samples below show attributions within a mobile application:
The button or user action that triggers a translation should be clearly labeled
Using the Cloud Translation API, it is possible to issue a call to Google Translate
directly from your site. The buttons or links you use in conjunction to these
features must include proper attribution to Google.
You must also adhere to the Google-wide
Guidelines for Third Party Use of Google Brand Features
Use of the buttons, stickers, and branding elements described in this document
is governed by the Cloud Translation API Terms of Service
Do not change any of the Google marks in any way. Do not remove, obstruct,
distort, or alter any element of a Google Translate trademark. This includes
modifying the Google word marks, for example, through hyphenation, combination
abbreviation, or acronym such as: Google Translate, GT, GoogTrans, etc.
Make sure the button, sticker, or other branding element is full and clearly
visible, never altered or partially covered.
Do not use the buttons, stickers, or other branding elements in ways that (1)
imply an association with or endorsement of any other product, service, event,
sponsorship, or organization; (2) can be reasonably interpreted to suggest
editorial content was authored by Google; or (3) represent the views or
opinions of Google personnel without prior written permission from Google. All
of the previously mentioned usages must be approved via written permission.
Do not adopt marks, logos, slogans, or designs that are confusingly similar to
the Google trademarks or imitate Google's trade dress, including the look and
feel of Google Translate web design properties, Google Translate brand
packaging, distinctive color combinations, typography, graphic designs,
product icons, or imagery associated with Google Translate.
Do not register Google trademarks as second-level domain names or incorporate
Google trademarks into your own product name, service names, trademarks,
Never display a Google trademark in a manner that is misleading, unfair,
defamatory, infringing, libelous, disparaging, obscene, or otherwise
Never display a Google Translate trademark on any web site or user interface
that contains or displays adult content, promotes gambling, promotes violence,
contains hate speech, involves the sale of tobacco or alcohol to persons under
21 years of age, violates other applicable laws or regulations or is
If you display the results of the Translation API to your end users without
modification, you must make the following disclaimer available on your web site
THIS SERVICE MAY CONTAIN TRANSLATIONS POWERED BY GOOGLE. GOOGLE
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES RELATED TO THE TRANSLATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES OF ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
If you are using the Translation API to make the content of a website available
in more languages, you might also include an additional disclaimer:
The <company name> website has been translated for your
convenience using translation software powered by Google Translate. Reasonable
efforts have been made to provide an accurate translation, however, no automated
translation is perfect nor is it intended to replace human translators.
Translations are provided as a service to users of the <company name>
website, and are provided "as is." No warranty of any kind, either expressed or
implied, is made as to the accuracy, reliability, or correctness of any
translations made from <source language> into any other language. Some
content (such as images, videos, Flash, etc.) may not be accurately translated
due to the limitations of the translation software.
The official text is the <source language> version of the
website. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not
binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any
questions arise related to the accuracy of the information contained in the
translated website, refer to the <source language> version of the
website which is the official version.
Note that this example is for illustrative purposes only. We encourage
you to consult your legal advisor about any additional disclaimers.
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Productivity & work transformation
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
