Topic - "SOUTH DAKOTA TITLE IX DOCUMENTATION"

Republic State (Red Region) (This is crawled data)

New Title IX Regulations (Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. §1681 et seq)
Effective Aug. 14, 2020: Sexual harassment, sexual assault and sexual discrimination, complaint process, and other new federal requirements should be in place in school policies
New Title IX regulations make fundamental changes to previous Title IX guidance. School district Title IX Coordinators should be working with district legal counsel to understand how the new regulations affect school districts' Title IX policies and procedures and make new revisions, as necessary.
The new Title IX rule which amends the regulations implementing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 was released by the U.S. Department of Education on May 6, 2020. Recipients of federal financial assistance, including elementary and secondary schools, must now respond to allegations of sexual harassment and assault consistent with Title IX's prohibition against sex discrimination.
Helpful links for Title IX Coordinators to review to ensure compliance:
Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX Final Rule
Office for Civil Rights Webinar: Title IX Regulations Addressing Sexual Harassment
For technical assistance, please contact the Office for Civil Rights OPEN Center
South Dakota Department of Education | Request Public Records | Accessibility Policy | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy
Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX Final Rule
Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education's Title IX Final Rule 
Issue 
1.Notice to the School,
College, Universizy
("Schools''):
Actual Knowledge
2.Definition of Sexual
Harassment for Title IX
PurposesThe Title IX Final Rule: Addressing Sexual Harassment in Schools 
The Final Rule requires a K-12 school to respond whenever any employee has notice of sexual harassment, 
including allegations of sexual harassment. Many State laws also require all K-12 employees to be mandato1y 
rep01iers of child abuse. For postseconda1y institutions, the Final Rule allows the institution to choose whether to 
have mandat01y repo1iing for all employees, or to designate some employees to be confidential resources for 
college students to discuss sexual harassment without automatically triggering a report to the Title IX office. 
For all schools, notice to a Title IX Coordinator, or to an official with authority to institute con-ective measures on 
the recipient's behalf, charges a school with actual knowledge and triggers the school's response obligations. 
The Final Rule defines sexual harassment broadly to include any of three types of misconduct on the basis of sex, 
all of which jeopardize the equal access to education that Title IX is designed to protect: Any instance of quid pro 
quo harassment by a school's employee; any unwelcome conduct that a reasonable person would find so severe, 
pervasive, and objectively offensive that it denies a person equal educational access; any instance of sexual 
assault (as defined in the Cle1y Act), dating violence, domestic violence, or stalking as defined in the Violence 
Against Women Act (VAWA). 
-The Final Rule prohibits sex-based Inisconduct in a manner consistent with the First An1endment. Quid pro quo
harassment and Cle1y ActN AW A offenses are not evaluated for severity, pervasiveness, offensiveness, or denial
of equal educational access, because such Inisconduct is sufficiently serious to deprive a person of equal access.
-The Final Rule uses the Supreme Comi's Davis definition (severe and pervasive and objectively offensive
conduct, effectively denying a person equal educational access) as one of the three categories of sexual
harassment, so that where unwelcome sex-based conduct consists of speech or expressive conduct, schools
balance Title IX enforcement with respect for free speech and academic freedom.
-The Final Rule uses the Supreme Comi's Title IX-specific definition rather than the Supreme Comi's Title VII
workplace standard (severe or pervasive conduct creating a hostile work environment). First Amendment
concerns differ in educational environments and workplace environments, and the Title IX definition provides
First Amendment protections appropriate for educational institutions where students are learning, and employees
are teaching. Students, teachers, faculty, and others should enjoy free speech and acadeinic freedom protections,
even when speech or expression is offensive.
Page 1 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
    
   
    
  
 
                     
               
               
                  
                   
              
                 
                
         
                   
                
               
  
 
   
                      
    
                   
       
                 
               
                 
       
                
 
                 
                  
                   
                  
                    
                Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
3. Sexual Harassment
Occurring in a School’s“Education Program orActivity” and “in the
United States”The Title IX statute applies to persons in the United States with respect to education programs or activities that 
receive Federal financial assistance. Under the Final Rule, schools must respond when sexual harassment occurs 
in the school’s education program or activity, against a person in the United States. 
- The Title IX statute and existing regulations contain broad definitions of a school’s “program or activity” and
the Department will continue to look to these definitions for the scope of a school’s education program or activity.
Education program or activity includes locations, events, or circumstances over which the school exercised
substantial control over both the respondent and the context in which the sexual harassment occurred, and also
includes any building owned or controlled by a student organization that is officially recognized by a
postsecondary institution (such as a fraternity or sorority house).
- Title IX applies to all of a school’s education programs or activities, whether such programs or activities occur
on-campus or off-campus. A school may address sexual harassment affecting its students or employees that falls
outside Title IX’s jurisdiction in any manner the school chooses, including providing supportive measures or
pursuing discipline.
4. Accessible Reporting
to Title IX Coordinator
The Final Rule expands a school’s obligations to ensure its educational community knows how to report to the 
Title IX Coordinator. 
- The employee designated by a recipient to coordinate its efforts to comply with Title IX responsibilities must be
referred to as the “Title IX Coordinator.”
- Instead of notifying only students and employees of the Title IX Coordinator’s contact information, the school
must also notify applicants for admission and employment, parents or legal guardians of elementary and
secondary school students, and all unions, of the name or title, office address, e-mail address, and telephone
number of the Title IX Coordinator.
- Schools must prominently display on their websites the required contact information for the Title IX
Coordinator.- Any person may report sex discrimination, including sexual harassment (whether or not the person reporting is
the person alleged to be the victim of conduct that could constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment), in
person, by mail, by telephone, or by e-mail, using the contact information listed for the Title IX Coordinator, or
by any other means that results in the Title IX Coordinator receiving the person’s verbal or written report.
- Such a report may be made at any time, including during non-business hours, by using the telephone number or
e-mail address, or by mail to the office address, listed for the Title IX Coordinator.
5. School’s  Mandatory 
Response   Obligations:  
The  Deliberate  
Indifference   Standard Schools  must  respond  promptly  to  Title  IX  sexual  harassment  in  a  manner  that  is  not  deliberately   indifferent,   
which  means  a  response  that  is  not  clearly  unreasonable   in  light  of  the  known  circumstances.   Schools  have  the  
following   mandatory   response  obligations:   
- Schools  must  offer  supportive  measures   to  the  person  alleged  to  be  the  victim (referred  to  as  the  “complainant”).   
Page 2 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
                  
             
                 
           
                  
             
                
         
                 
              
                  
                
                
                      
                   
                   
              
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
- The Title IX Coordinator must promptly contact the complainant confidentially to discuss the availability of
supportive measures, consider the complainant’s wishes with respect to supportive measures, inform the
complainant of the availability of supportive measures with or without the filing of a formal complaint, and
explain to the complainant the process for filing a formal complaint.
- Schools must follow a grievance process that complies with the Final Rule before the imposition of any
disciplinary sanctions or other actions that are not supportive measures, against a respondent.
- Schools must not restrict rights protected under the U.S. Constitution, including the First Amendment, Fifth
Amendment, and Fourteenth Amendment, when complying with Title IX.
- The Final Rule requires a school to investigate sexual harassment allegations in any formal complaint, which
can be filed by a complainant, or signed by a Title IX Coordinator.
- The Final Rule affirms that a complainant’s wishes with respect to whether the school investigates should be
respected unless the Title IX Coordinator determines that signing a formal complaint to initiate an investigation
over the wishes of the complainant is not clearly unreasonable in light of the known circumstances.
- If the allegations in a formal complaint do not meet the definition of sexual harassment in the Final Rule, or did
not occur in the school’s education program or activity against a person in the United States, the Final Rule
clarifies that the school must dismiss such allegations for purposes of Title IX but may still address the allegations
in any manner the school deems appropriate under the school’s own code of conduct.
6. School’s Mandatory
Response Obligations:
Defining 
“Complainant,” “Respondent,” “Formal Complaint,” “Supportive Measures” When  responding   t
 o  sexual  harassment   (e.g.,  by  offering  supportive   measures  to  a  complainant   and  refraining   
from  disciplining   a  respondent   without  following   a  Title  IX  grievance   process,  which  includes  investigating   
formal  complaints   of  sexual  harassment),   the  Final  Rule  provides  clear  definitions   of  complainant,   respondent,   
formal  complaint,   and  supportive   measures  so  that  recipients,   students,  and  employees   clearly  understand   how  a  
school  must  respond  to  sexual  harassment   incidents  in  a  way  that  supports  the  alleged  victim  and  treats  both  
parties  fairly.  
 
The  Final  Rule  defines  “complainant”   as  an  individual   who  is  alleged  to  be  the  victim  of  conduct  that  could  
constitute   sexual  harassment.   
- This  clarifies  that  any  third  party  as  well  as  the  complainant   may  report  sexual  harassment.  
- While  parents  and  guardians   do  not  become  complainants   (or  respondents),   the  Final  Rule  expressly   recognizes  
the  legal  rights  of  parents  and  guardians   to  act  on  behalf  of  parties  (including   by  filing  formal  complaints)   in  Title 
IX  matters. 
 
The  Final  Rule  defines  “respondent”   as  an  individual   who  has  been  reported  to  be  the  perpetrator   of  conduct  that  
could  constitute  sexual  harassment.   
Page 3 of  9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
                    
              
      
                    
               
                     
                    
      
                   
                 
               
                    
                  
   
             
               
         
                   
                
                
    
 
 
                
                 
                 
   
                
             
    
                   
               
                
        
              
            Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
The Final Rule defines “formal complaint” as a document filed by a complainant or signed by the Title IX 
Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a respondent and requesting that the school investigate the 
allegation of sexual harassment and states: 
- At the time of filing a formal complaint, a complainant must be participating in or attempting to participate in
the education program or activity of the school with which the formal complaint is filed.
- A formal complaint may be filed with the Title IX Coordinator in person, by mail, or by electronic mail, by
using the contact information required to be listed for the Title IX Coordinator under the Final Rule, and by any
additional method designated by the school.
- The phrase “document filed by a complainant” means a document or electronic submission (such as by e-mail or
through an online portal provided for this purpose by the school) that contains the complainant’s physical or
digital signature, or otherwise indicates that the complainant is the person filing the formal complaint.
- Where the Title IX Coordinator signs a formal complaint, the Title IX Coordinator is not a complainant or a
party during a grievance process, and must comply with requirements for Title IX personnel to be free from
conflicts and bias.
The Final Rule defines “supportive measures” as individualized services reasonably available that are non-
punitive, non-disciplinary, and not unreasonably burdensome to the other party while designed to ensure equal
educational access, protect safety, or deter sexual harassment.
- The Final Rule evaluates a school’s selection of supportive measures and remedies based on what is not clearly
unreasonable in light of the known circumstances, and does not second guess a school’s disciplinary decisions,
but requires the school to offer supportive measures, and provide remedies to a complainant whenever a
respondent is found responsible . 
7. Grievance  Process,  
   General  Requirements  The Final Rule prescribes a consistent, transparent grievance process for resolving formal complaints of sexual 
harassment. Aside from hearings (see Issue #9 below), the grievance process prescribed by the Final Rule applies 
to all schools equally including K-12 schools and postsecondary institutions. The Final Rule states that a school’s 
grievance process must: - Treat complainants equitably by providing remedies any time a respondent is found responsible, and treat
respondents equitably by not imposing disciplinary sanctions without following the grievance process prescribed
in the Final Rule.
- Remedies, which are required to be provided to a complainant when a respondent is found responsible, must be
designed to maintain the complainant’s equal access to education and may include the same individualized
services described in the Final Rule as supportive measures; however, remedies need not be non-disciplinary or
non-punitive and need not avoid burdening the respondent.
- Require objective evaluation of all relevant evidence, inculpatory and exculpatory, and avoid credibility
determinations based on a person’s status as a complainant, respondent , or witness. 
Page 4 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
               
                 
 
                    
                
              
              
                   
                
          
                 
           
                   
         
                
              
                  
           
                   
              
   
                
 
                   
            
                      
               
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
- Require Title IX personnel (Title IX Coordinators, investigators, decision-makers, people who facilitate any
informal resolution process) to be free from conflicts of interest or bias for or against complainants or
respondents.- Training of Title IX personnel must include training on the definition of sexual harassment in the Final Rule, the
scope of the school’s education program or activity, how to conduct an investigation and grievance process
including hearings, appeals, and informal resolution processes, as applicable, and how to serve impartially,
including by avoiding prejudgment of the facts at issue, conflicts of interest, and bias.
- A school must ensure that decision-makers receive training on any technology to be used at a live hearing.
- A school’s decision-makers and investigators must receive training on issues of relevance, including how to
apply the rape shield protections provided only for complainants.
- Include a presumption that the respondent is not responsible for the alleged conduct until a determination
regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the grievance process.
- Recipients must post materials used to train Title IX personnel on their websites, if any, or make materials
available for members of the public to inspect.
- Include reasonably prompt time frames for conclusion of the grievance process, including appeals and informal
resolutions, with allowance for short-term, good cause delays or extensions of the time frames.
- Describe the range, or list, the possible remedies a school may provide a complainant and disciplinary sanctions
a school might impose on a respondent, following determinations of responsibility.
- State whether the school has chosen to use the preponderance of the evidence standard, or the clear and
convincing evidence standard, for all formal complaints of sexual harassment (including where employees and
faculty are respondents).
- Describe the school’s appeal procedures, and the range of supportive measures available to complainants and
respondents.- A school’s grievance process must not use, rely on, or seek disclosure of information protected under a legally
recognized privilege, unless the person holding such privilege has waived the privilege.
- Any provisions, rules, or practices other than those required by the Final Rule that a school adopts as part of its
grievance process for handling formal complaints of sexual harassment, must apply equally to both parties.
Page 5 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
  
  
 
 
               
                  
  
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
8. Investigations  
       The  Final  Rule  states  that  the  school  must  investigate   the  allegations   in  any  formal  complaint   and  send  written  
notice  to  both  parties  (complainants   and  respondents)   of  the  allegations   upon  receipt  of  a  formal  complaint.   
During  the  grievance   process  and  when  investigating:  
- The  burden  of  gathering   evidence   and  burden  of  proof  must  remain  on  schools,  not  on  the  parties.  
- Schools  must  provide  equal  opportunity   for  the  parties  to  present  fact  and  expert  witnesses   and  other  inculpatory  
and  exculpatory   evidence.  
- Schools  must  not  restrict  the  ability  of  the  parties  to  discuss  the  allegations   or  gather  evidence   (e.g.,  no  “gag 
orders”). 
- Parties  must  have  the  same  opportunity  to  select  an  advisor  of  the  party’s  choice  who  may  be,  but  need  not  be, 
an  attorney.  
- Schools  must  send  written  notice  of  any  investigative   interviews,   meetings,   or  hearings. 
- Schools  must  send  the  parties,  and  their  advisors,  evidence   directly  related  to  the  allegations,  in  electronic  
format  or  hard  copy,  with  at  least  10  days  for  the  parties  to  inspect,  review,  and  respond  to  the  evidence.  
- Schools  must  send  the  parties,  and  their  advisors,  an  investigative   report  that  fairly  summarizes   relevant 
evidence,   in  electronic   format  or  hard  copy,  with  at  least  10  days  for  the  parties  to  respond. 
- Schools  must  dismiss  allegations   of  conduct  that  do  not  meet  the  Final  Rule’s  definition   of  sexual  harassment   or 
did  not  occur  in  a  school’s  education   program  or  activity  against  a  person  in  the  U.S.   Such  dismissal   is  only  for 
Title  IX  purposes   and  does  not  preclude  the  school  from  addressing   the  conduct  in  any  manner  the  school  deems 
appropriate.  
- Schools  may,  in  their  discretion,   dismiss  a  formal  complaint   or  allegations   therein  if  the  complainant   informs  the 
Title  IX  Coordinator   in  writing  that  the  complainant   desires  to  withdraw   the  formal  complaint   or  allegations  
therein,  if  the  respondent   is  no  longer  enrolled  or  employed   by  the  school,  or  if  specific  circumstances   prevent  the 
school  from  gathering   sufficient   evidence  to  reach  a  determination.   
- Schools  must  give  the  parties  written  notice  of  a  dismissal  (mandatory   or  discretionary)   and  the  reasons  for  the 
dismissal.  
- Schools  may,  in  their  discretion,   consolidate   formal  complaints   where  the  allegations   arise  out  of  the  same  facts. 
- The  Final  Rule  protects  the  privacy  of  a  party’s  medical,  psychological,   and  similar  treatment  records  by  stating 
that  schools  cannot  access  or  use  such  records  unless  the  school  obtains  the  party’s  voluntary,   written  consent  to 
do  so. 
9. Hearings: The Final Rule adds provisions to the “live hearing with cross-examination” requirement for postsecondary 
institutions and clarifies that hearings are optional for K-12 schools (and any other recipient that is not a 
postsecondary institution). 
Page 6 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021),  appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
  
 
                 
   
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
(a) Live  Hearings  & 
Cross-Examination 
(for  Postsecondary  
Institutions)  
(b) Hearings  are 
Optional,   Written 
Questions  
Required  
(for  K-12  Schools) 
(c) Rape  Shield 
Protections  for 
Complainants  (a) For  postsecondary   institutions,  the  school’s  grievance  process  must  provide  for  a  live  hearing: 
- At  the  live  hearing,  the  decision-maker(s)   must  permit  each  party’s  advisor  to  ask  the  other  party  and  any 
witnesses   all  relevant  questions  and  follow-up   questions,   including   those  challenging   credibility.  
- Such  cross-examination   at  the  live  hearing  must  be  conducted   directly,  orally,  and  in  real  time  by  the  party’s 
advisor  of  choice  and  never  by  a  party  personally.  
- At  the  request  of  either  party,  the  recipient  must  provide  for  the  entire  live  hearing  (including   cross-examination)  
to  occur  with  the  parties  located  in  separate  rooms  with  technology   enabling  the  parties  to  see  and  hear  each  other.  
- Only  relevant  cross-examination   and  other  questions   may  be  asked  of  a  party  or  witness.  Before  a  complainant,  
respondent,   or  witness  answers  a  cross-examination   or  other  question,   the  decision-maker   must  first  determine  
whether  the  question  is  relevant  and  explain  to  the  party’s  advisor  asking  cross-examination   questions   any 
decision  to  exclude  a  question  as  not  relevant.  
- If  a  party  does  not  have  an  advisor  present  at  the  live  hearing,  the  school  must  provide,  without  fee  or  charge  to 
that  party,  an  advisor  of  the  school’s  choice  who  may  be,  but  is  not  required  to  be,  an  attorney  to  conduct  cross-
examination   on  behalf  of  that  party. 
- If  a  party  or  witness  does  not  submit  to  cross-examination   at  the  live  hearing,  the  decision-maker(s)   must  not 
rely  on  any  statement   of  that  party  or  witness  in  reaching  a  determination   regarding   responsibility;   provided,  
however,  that  the  decision-maker(s)   cannot  draw  an  inference   about  the  determination   regarding   responsibility  
based  solely  on  a  party’s  or  witness’s   absence  from  the  live  hearing  or  refusal  to  answer  cross-examination   or 
other  questions.  
- Live  hearings  may  be  conducted   with  all  parties  physically   present  in  the  same  geographic   location  or,  at  the 
school’s  discretion,   any  or  all  parties,  witnesses,   and  other  participants   may  appear  at  the  live  hearing  virtually.  
- Schools  must  create  an  audio  or  audiovisual   recording,   or  transcript,   of  any  live  hearing. 
(b) For  recipients   that  are  K-12  schools,  and  other  recipients   that  are  not  postsecondary   institutions,   the  recipient’s  
grievance   process  may,  but  need  not,  provide  for  a  hearing:  
- With  or  without  a  hearing,  after  the  school  has  sent  the  investigative   report  to  the  parties  and  before  reaching  a 
determination   regarding   responsibility,   the  decision-maker(s)   must  afford  each  party  the  opportunity   to  submit 
written,  relevant  questions  that  a  party  wants  asked  of  any  party  or  witness,  provide  each  party  with  the  answers, 
and  allow  for  additional,   limited  follow-up   questions   from  each  party.  
(c) The  Final  Rule  provides  rape  shield  protections  for  complainants   (as  to  all  recipients   whether  postsecondary  
institutions,   K-12  schools,  or  others),  deeming  irrelevant  questions   and  evidence   about  a  complainant’s   prior 
sexual  behavior  unless  offered  to  prove  that  someone  other  than  the  respondent   committed   the  alleged  misconduct  
or  offered  to  prove  consent. 
Page 7 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
   
 
 
  
                  
                
                 
                  
    
                    
             
                
           
                   
 
 
  
 
                  
                 
                
                     
  
              
 
                      
                 
                 
                  
                  
                 
                  
                     
             
                 
    
 
 
 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
10. Standard of
Evidence & Written
DeterminationThe Final Rule requires the school’s grievance process to state whether the standard of evidence to determine 
responsibility is the preponderance of the evidence standard or the clear and convincing evidence standard. The 
Final Rule makes each school’s grievance process consistent by requiring each school to apply the same standard 
of evidence for all formal complaints of sexual harassment whether the respondent is a student or an employee 
(including faculty member). - The decision-maker (who cannot be the same person as the Title IX Coordinator or the investigator) must issue a
written determination regarding responsibility with findings of fact, conclusions about whether the alleged
conduct occurred, rationale for the result as to each allegation, any disciplinary sanctions imposed on the
respondent, and whether remedies will be provided to the complainant.
- The written determination must be sent simultaneously to the parties along with information about how to file an
appeal.
11. Appeals The Final Rule states that a school must offer both parties an appeal from a determination regarding 
responsibility, and from a school’s dismissal of a formal complaint or any allegations therein, on the following 
bases: procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter, newly discovered evidence that could affect 
the outcome of the matter, and/or Title IX personnel had a conflict of interest or bias, that affected the outcome of 
the matter. 
- A school may offer an appeal equally to both parties on additional bases.
12. Informal Resolution The Final Rule allows a school, in its discretion, to choose to offer and facilitate informal resolution options, such 
as mediation or restorative justice, so long as both parties give voluntary, informed, written consent to attempt 
informal resolution. Any person who facilitates an informal resolution must be well trained. The Final Rule adds: 
- A school may not require as a condition of enrollment or continuing enrollment, or employment or continuing
employment, or enjoyment of any other right, waiver of the right to a formal investigation and adjudication of
formal complaints of sexual harassment. Similarly, a school may not require the parties to participate in an
informal resolution process and may not offer an informal resolution process unless a formal complaint is filed.
- At any time prior to agreeing to a resolution, any party has the right to withdraw from the informal resolution
process and resume the grievance process with respect to the formal complaint.
- Schools must not offer or facilitate an informal resolution process to resolve allegations that an employee
sexually harassed a student.
Page 8 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon. 
             
    
    
        
                   
                  
             
                 
                  
                
                                   
                
                 Summary of Major Provisions of the Department of Education’s Title IX Final Rule 
13. RetaliationProhibited The Final Rule expressly prohibits retaliation. 
- Charging an individual with code of conduct violations that do not involve sexual harassment, but arise out of
the same facts or circumstances as a report or formal complaint of sexual harassment, for the purpose of
interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX constitutes retaliation.
- The school must keep confidential the identity of complainants, respondents, and witnesses, except as may be
permitted by FERPA, as required by law, or as necessary to carry out a Title IX proceeding.
- Complaints alleging retaliation may be filed according to a school’s prompt and equitable grievance procedures.
- The exercise of rights protected under the First Amendment does not constitute retaliation.
- Charging an individual with a code of conduct violation for making a materially false statement in bad faith in
the course of a Title IX grievance proceeding does not constitute retaliation; however, a determination regarding
responsibility, alone, is not sufficient to conclude that any party made a bad faith materially false statement. 
Page 9 of 9 A Federal court order vacated the following language in 34 C.F.R. § 106.45(b)(6)(i): “If a party or witness does not submit to cross-examination at the 
live hearing, the decision-maker(s) must not rely on any statement of that party or witness in reaching a determination regarding responsibility.” 
Victim Rights Law Center et al. v. Cardona , No. 1:20-cv-11104, 2021 WL 3185743 (D. Mass. July 28, 2021), appeals pending  (1st Cir.). The 
Department will no longer enforce this portion of the provision and any related statements in this document may not be relied upon.Office for Civil Rights Webinar: Title IX Regulations Addressing Sexual Harassment
Boards and Commissions
Boards and Commissions Manual
List All Boards and Commissions
Bureau of Finance and Management
Bureau of Information and Telecommunications
Department of Ag and Natural Resources
Department of Game, Fish, and Parks
Department of Human Services
Department of Labor and Regulation
Department of Social Services
Department of Transportation
Department of Tribal Relations
Governor's Office of Economic Development
South Dakota Housing Authority
South Dakota Retirement System
Events Calendar - Click on highlighted date to view a list of events.
SunMonTueWedThuFriSat311234567891011121314151617181920212223242526272829303112345678910
© 2024 | Powered by BIT | State of South Dakota
sd.gov | sdlegislature.gov | email us
Codified Laws
Privacy Policy
The following federal laws, regulations, and presidential executive orders cover various anti-discrimination requirements affecting educational institutions and their employees and students. These laws and regulations protect the rights of everyone involved in education without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, or disability. Enforcement of these statutes is under the jurisdiction of federal enforcement agencies, including the Office for Civil Rights of the United States Department of Education (OCR, DOE); the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC); Federal Contract Compliance (FCC); and the United States Department of Labor (DOL).
Educational institutes that receive federal funds are required to comply with Civil Rights laws, regulations and guidelines, which include the following:
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color and national origin.)
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex). Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) - The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) is a law that makes available a free appropriate public education to eligible children with disabilities throughout the nation and ensures special education and related services to those children.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability).
The US Office for Civil Rights "Discrimination and Denial of Services on the Basis of Race, Color, National Origin, Gender and Handicap" (prohibits unlawful discrimination in vocational education programs.)
Guidelines: These guidelines explain the civil rights responsibilities of recipients of Federal funds offering or administering vocational education programs.
Title IX (sex/gender):  The Education amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex/gender  in education programs receiving or benefiting from federal financial assistance.  The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare issued regulations implementing Title IX in 1975.
Sexual Harassment Guidance:  Harassment of Students by School Employees, Other Students, or Third Parties. The Guidance provides information regarding the standards that are used by the Office for Civil Rights (OCR), and that should be used to investigate and resolve allegations of sexual harassment of students engaged in by school employees, other students (peers)
Section 504 (disabilities):  The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare issued regulations implementing Section 504 in 1977.
Americans with Disabilities Act:  Prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability by public entities. It extends the prohibition of discrimination in federally assisted programs established by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to all activities of state and local governments, including those that do not receive federal financial assistance. Effective date: January 26, 1992.
Section 508:  Standards which Federal agencies must follow in constructing their own web pages. The Department of Justice has information about accessible web page design in an April 2000 report to the President. The General Services Administration hosts an online course for web developers interested in accessible web design. This program was developed in conjunction with the Access Board, the Department of Justice, and the Department of Education and provides an interactive demonstration of how to build accessible web pages. This course is available at www.section508.gov.
The South Dakota Department of Education (SD DOE), as a recipient of federal education funds, is required by the United States Department of Education, to conduct Civil Rights (CR) reviews of schools within districts  and of postsecondary institutions that:
The purpose of the review is to ensure that schools and districts are providing access for all students to educational programs in compliance with the requirements of the following federal Civil Rights statutes:
Vocational Education Programs Guidelines for Eliminating Discrimination and Denial of Services on the Basis of Race, Color, and National Origin, Sex and Handicap (Guidelines), 34 CFR Part 100 Appendix B
Affected protected groups under these statutes include “race, color, national origin, sex (gender), disabilities,” and at the postsecondary level, “age.”
Among other criteria, the main criteria used in selecting a high school are based on (1) the high school receiving a CTE program approval process in a given year and (2) the high school rising to one of the top positions in the analyses of various attendance data in CTE programs.  Similar criteria are used in selecting postsecondary institutions.
The intent of the review is to assist school districts and postsecondary institutions meet the civil rights requirements, to prevent future costly problems, and to offer technical assistance to the districts and postsecondary institutions where corrective actions are needed.
Particular items need to be fowarded to SD DOE at least two weeks before the review occurs.  The reviewer will notify the school district and request the necessary items.
The review typically involves only one day, depending on the size of the educational setting under review. The date and time is determined ahead of time between the reviewer and school contact.
Elements of the review include study of particular school records and documents, a building measurement walk through, and interviews with some or all of the following groups: students, parents, district and school personnel.
Finally, the review is not intended to penalize recipients for findings, but is designed to help find and fix issues regarding civil rights.
Post review follow-up may be necessary to collect information necessary to complete the review process.
The reviewer then compiles the findings and creates a report called Letter of Findings (LOF). The LOF is mailed to the district superintendent for review and response as well as to solicit any explanations as needed.
Depending upon the circumstances, the reviewed school has between 30 and 40 calendar days to respond to the LOF with a very specific plan called a Voluntary Compliance Plan (VCP) listing:
The school is required to rectify noncompliance issues in a manner that meets the statutes.  The school has a year or less depending upon the severity of the noncompliance to rectify the issues.
Within one year of the accepted VCP, the reviewer may conduct a follow-up onsite review to assess whether the rectified noncompliance items are now in compliance.  Typically, this review is shorter than the initial onsite review.
If any item is incomplete, SD DOE is required to keep the file active and to conduct further follow-up reviews, training, etc.
Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education, One Petticoat Lane, 1010 Walnut St, 3rd Fl. Ste 320, Kansas City, MO 64106
South Dakota Department of Education | Request Public Records | Accessibility Policy | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy
Title IX (sex/gender):
Appendix A to Part 106�Guidelines for Eliminating Discrimination and Denial of Services on the Basis of Race, Color, National Origin, Sex, and Handicap in Vocational Education Programs
The purpose of this part is to effectuate title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended by Pub. L. 93–568, 88 Stat. 1855 (except sections 904 and 906 of those Amendments) which is designed to eliminate (with certain exceptions) discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, whether or not such program or activity is offered or sponsored by an educational institution as defined in this part. This part is also intended to effectuate section 844 of the Education Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93–380, 88 Stat. 484. The effective date of this part shall be July 21, 1975.
(Authority: Secs. 901, 902, Education Amendments of 1972, 86 Stat. 373, 374; 20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, as amended by Pub. L. 93–568, 88 Stat. 1855, and sec. 844, Education Amendments of 1974, 88 Stat. 484, Pub. L. 93–380)
(a) Title IX means title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. 92–318, as amended by section 3 of Pub. L. 93–568, 88 Stat. 1855, except sections 904 and 906 thereof; 20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686.
(e) Reviewing Authority means that component of the Department delegated authority by the Secretary to appoint, and to review the decisions of, administrative law judges in cases arising under this part.
(ii) Scholarships, loans, grants, wages or other funds extended to any entity for payment to or on behalf of students admitted to that entity, or extended directly to such students for payment to that entity.
(2) A grant of Federal real or personal property or any interest therein, including surplus property, and the proceeds of the sale or transfer of such property, if the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not, upon such sale or transfer, properly accounted for to the Federal Government.
(4) Sale or lease of Federal property or any interest therein at nominal consideration, or at consideration reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of public interest to be served thereby, or permission to use Federal property or any interest therein without consideration.
(5) Any other contract, agreement, or arrangement which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance to any education program or activity, except a contract of insurance or guaranty.
(ii) The entity of a State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity that is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (h)(1), (2), or (3) of this section; any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance.
(i) Recipient means any State or political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient and which operates an education program or activity which receives such assistance, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
(j) Applicant means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by a Department official, or by a recipient, as a condition to becoming a recipient.
(k) Educational institution means a local educational agency (LEA) as defined by section 1001(f) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 3381), a preschool, a private elementary or secondary school, or an applicant or recipient of the type defined by paragraph (l), (m), (n), or (o) of this section.
(1) Offers academic study beyond the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree, whether or not leading to a certificate of any higher degree in the liberal arts and sciences; or
(2) Awards any degree in a professional field beyond the first professional degree (regardless of whether the first professional degree in such field is awarded by an institution of undergraduate higher education or professional education); or
(3) Awards no degree and offers no further academic study, but operates ordinarily for the purpose of facilitating research by persons who have received the highest graduate degree in any field of study.
(1) An institution offering at least two but less than four years of college level study beyond the high school level, leading to a diploma or an associate degree, or wholly or principally creditable toward a baccalaureate degree; or
(n) Institution of professional education means an institution (except any institution of undergraduate higher education) which offers a program of academic study that leads to a first professional degree in a field for which there is a national specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary.
(o) Institution of vocational education means a school or institution (except an institution of professional or graduate or undergraduate higher education) which has as its primary purpose preparation of students to pursue a technical, skilled, or semiskilled occupation or trade, or to pursue study in a technical field, whether or not the school or institution offers certificates, diplomas, or degrees and whether or not it offers fulltime study.
(p) Administratively separate unit means a school, department or college of an educational institution (other than a local educational agency) admission to which is independent of admission to any other component of such institution.
(q) Admission means selection for part-time, full-time, special, associate, transfer, exchange, or any other enrollment, membership, or matriculation in or at an education program or activity operated by a recipient.
(s) Transition plan means a plan subject to the approval of the Secretary pursuant to section 901(a)(2) of the Education Amendments of 1972, under which an educational institution operates in making the transition from being an educational institution which admits only students of one sex to being one which admits students of both sexes without discrimination.
(a) Remedial action. If the Assistant Secretary finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, such recipient shall take such remedial action as the Assistant Secretary deems necessary to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
(b) Affirmative action. In the absence of a finding of discrimination on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, a recipient may take affirmative action to overcome the effects of conditions which resulted in limited participation therein by persons of a particular sex. Nothing herein shall be interpreted to alter any affirmative action obligations which a recipient may have under Executive Order 11246.
(1) Evaluate, in terms of the requirements of this part, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof concerning admission of students, treatment of students, and employment of both academic and non-academic personnel working in connection with the recipient's education program or activity;
(3) Take appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination which resulted or may have resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
(d) Availability of self-evaluation and related materials. Recipients shall maintain on file for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall provide to the Assistant Secretary upon request, a description of any modifications made pursuant to paragraph (c)(ii) of this section and of any remedial steps taken pursuant to paragraph (c)(iii) of this section.
(a) General. Every application for Federal financial assistance shall as condition of its approval contain or be accompanied by an assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the Assistant Secretary, that the education program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which this part applies will be operated in compliance with this part. An assurance of compliance with this part shall not be satisfactory to the Assistant Secretary if the applicant or recipient to whom such assurance applies fails to commit itself to take whatever remedial action is necessary in accordance with §106.3(a) to eliminate existing discrimination on the basis of sex or to eliminate the effects of past discrimination whether occurring prior or subsequent to the submission to the Assistant Secretary of such assurance.
(b) Duration of obligation. (1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide real property or structures thereon, such assurance shall obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used to provide an education program or activity.
(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.
(c) Form. The Director will specify the form of the assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section and the extent to which such assurances will be required of the applicant's or recipient's subgrantees, contractors, subcontractors, transferees, or successors in interest.
If a recipient sells or otherwise transfers property financed in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance to a transferee which operates any education program or activity, and the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not upon such sale or transfer properly accounted for to the Federal Government both the transferor and the transferee shall be deemed to be recipients, subject to the provisions of subpart B of this part.
(a) Effect of other Federal provisions. The obligations imposed by this part are independent of, and do not alter, obligations not to discriminate on the basis of sex imposed by Executive Order 11246, as amended; sections 704 and 855 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292d and 298b–2); Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.); the Equal Pay Act (29 U.S.C. 206 and 206(d)); and any other Act of Congress or Federal regulation.
(b) Effect of State or local law or other requirements. The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated by any State or local law or other requirement which would render any applicant or student ineligible, or limit the eligibility of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, to practice any occupation or profession.
(c) Effect of rules or regulations of private organizations. The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association which would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by a recipient and which receives Federal financial assistance.
The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or profession are or may be more limited for members of one sex than for members of the other sex.
(a) Designation of responsible employee. Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under this part, including any investigation of any complaint communicated to such recipient alleging its noncompliance with this part or alleging any actions which would be prohibited by this part. The recipient shall notify all its students and employees of the name, office address and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
(b) Complaint procedure of recipient. A recipient shall adopt and publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints alleging any action which would be prohibited by this part.
(a) Notification of policy. (1) Each recipient shall implement specific and continuing steps to notify applicants for admission and employment, students and parents of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational program or activity which it operates, and that it is required by title IX and this part not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification shall contain such information, and be made in such manner, as the Assistant Secretary finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by title IX and this part, but shall state at least that the requirement not to discriminate in the education program or activity extends to employment therein, and to admission thereto unless Subpart C does not apply to the recipient, and that inquiries concerning the application of title IX and this part to such recipient may be referred to the employee designated pursuant to §106.8, or to the Assistant Secretary.
(2) Each recipient shall make the initial notification required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 90 days of the effective date of this part or of the date this part first applies to such recipient, whichever comes later, which notification shall include publication in:
(b) Publications. (1) Each recipient shall prominently include a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section in each announcement, bulletin, catalog, or application form which it makes available to any person of a type, described in paragraph (a) of this section, or which is otherwise used in connection with the recruitment of students or employees.
(2) A recipient shall not use or distribute a publication of the type described in this paragraph which suggests, by text or illustration, that such recipient treats applicants, students, or employees differently on the basis of sex except as such treatment is permitted by this part.
(c) Distribution. Each recipient shall distribute without discrimination on the basis of sex each publication described in paragraph (b) of this section, and shall apprise each of its admission and employment recruitment representatives of the policy of nondiscrimination described in paragraph (a) of this section, and require such representatives to adhere to such policy.
Except as provided in this subpart, this part 106 applies to every recipient and to the education program or activity operated by such recipient which receives Federal financial assistance.
(a) Application. This part does not apply to an educational institution which is controlled by a religious organization to the extent application of this part would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(b) Exemption. An educational institution which wishes to claim the exemption set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, shall do so by submitting in writing to the Assistant Secretary a statement by the highest ranking official of the institution, identifying the provisions of this part which conflict with a specific tenet of the religious organization.
This part does not apply to an educational institution whose primary purpose is the training of individuals for a military service of the United States or for the merchant marine.
(a) Social fraternities and sororities. This part does not apply to the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities which are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at institutions of higher education.
(b) YMCA, YWCA, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls. This part does not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association, the Young Women's Christian Association, the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls.
(c) Voluntary youth service organizations. This part does not apply to the membership practices of voluntary youth service organizations which are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and the membership of which has been traditionally limited to members of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age.
(b) Administratively separate units. For the purposes only of this section, §§106.16 and 106.17, and subpart C, each administratively separate unit shall be deemed to be an educational institution.
(c) Application of subpart C. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, subpart C applies to each recipient. A recipient to which subpart C applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of that subpart.
(d) Educational institutions. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section as to recipients which are educational institutions, subpart C applies only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate higher education, and public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
(e) Public institutions of undergraduate higher education. Subpart C does not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education which traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting only students of one sex.
(2) Admitted only students of one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1965, but thereafter admitted as regular students, students of the sex not admitted prior to June 23, 1965.
(b) Provision for transition plans. An educational institution to which this section applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of subpart C unless it is carrying out a transition plan approved by the Secretary as described in §106.17, which plan provides for the elimination of such discrimination by the earliest practicable date but in no event later than June 23, 1979.
(a) Submission of plans. An institution to which §106.16 applies and which is composed of more than one administratively separate unit may submit either a single transition plan applicable to all such units, or a separate transition plan applicable to each such unit.
(1) State the name, address, and Federal Interagency Committee on Education (FICE) Code of the educational institution submitting such plan, the administratively separate units to which the plan is applicable, and the name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom questions concerning the plan may be addressed. The person who submits the plan shall be the chief administrator or president of the institution, or another individual legally authorized to bind the institution to all actions set forth in the plan.
(2) State whether the educational institution or administratively separate unit admits students of both sexes, as regular students and, if so, when it began to do so.
(3) Identify and describe with respect to the educational institution or administratively separate unit any obstacles to admitting students without discrimination on the basis of sex.
(4) Describe in detail the steps necessary to eliminate as soon as practicable each obstacle so identified and indicate the schedule for taking these steps and the individual directly responsible for their implementation.
(c) Nondiscrimination. No policy or practice of a recipient to which §106.16 applies shall result in treatment of applicants to or students of such recipient in violation of subpart C unless such treatment is necessitated by an obstacle identified in paragraph (b) (3) of this section and a schedule for eliminating that obstacle has been provided as required by paragraph (b) (4) of this section.
(d) Effects of past exclusion. To overcome the effects of past exclusion of students on the basis of sex, each educational institution to which §106.16 applies shall include in its transition plan, and shall implement, specific steps designed to encourage individuals of the previously excluded sex to apply for admission to such institution. Such steps shall include instituting recruitment which emphasizes the institution's commitment to enrolling students of the sex previously excluded.
(a) General. No person shall, on the basis of sex, be denied admission, or be subjected to discrimination in admission, by any recipient to which this subpart applies, except as provided in §§106.16 and 106.17.
(b) Specific prohibitions. (1) In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which this subpart applies shall not:
(2) A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for admission which has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless the use of such test or criterion is shown to predict validly success in the education program or activity in question and alternative tests or criteria which do not have such a disproportionately adverse effect are shown to be unavailable.
(c) Prohibitions relating to marital or parental status. In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which this subpart applies:
(1) Shall not apply any rule concerning the actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a student or applicant which treats persons differently on the basis of sex;
(2) Shall not discriminate against or exclude any person on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, or establish or follow any rule or practice which so discriminates or excludes;
(3) Shall treat disabilities related to pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability or physical condition; and
(4) Shall not make pre-admission inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for admission, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.” A recipient may make pre-admission inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for admision, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by this part.
A recipient to which this subpart applies shall not give preference to applicants for admission, on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or other school or entity which admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preference has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of this subpart.
(a) Nondiscriminatory recruitment. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and admission of students. A recipient may be required to undertake additional recruitment efforts for one sex as remedial action pursuant to §106.3(a), and may choose to undertake such efforts as affirmative action pursuant to §106.3(b).
(b) Recruitment at certain institutions. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at educational institutions, schools or entities which admit as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of this subpart.
(a) General. Except as provided elsewhere in this part, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by a recipient which receives Federal financial assistance. This subpart does not apply to actions of a recipient in connection with admission of its students to an education program or activity of (1) a recipient to which subpart C does not apply, or (2) an entity, not a recipient, to which subpart C would not apply if the entity were a recipient.
(1) Treat one person differently from another in determining whether such person satisfies any requirement or condition for the provision of such aid, benefit, or service;
(6) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against any person by providing significant assistance to any agency, organization, or person which discriminates on the basis of sex in providing any aid, benefit or service to students or employees;
(c) Assistance administered by a recipient educational institution to study at a foreign institution. A recipient educational institution may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other awards established by foreign or domestic wills, trusts, or similar legal instruments, or by acts of foreign governments and restricted to members of one sex, which are designed to provide opportunities to study abroad, and which are awarded to students who are already matriculating at or who are graduates of the recipient institution; Provided, a recipient educational institution which administers or assists in the administration of such scholarships, fellowships, or other awards which are restricted to members of one sex provides, or otherwise makes available reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other sex. Such opportunities may be derived from either domestic or foreign sources.
(d) Aid, benefits or services not provided by recipient. (1) This paragraph applies to any recipient which requires participation by any applicant, student, or employee in any education program or activity not operated wholly by such recipient, or which facilitates, permits, or considers such participation as part of or equivalent to an education program or activity operated by such recipient, including participation in educational consortia and cooperative employment and student-teaching assignments.
(i) Shall develop and implement a procedure designed to assure itself that the operator or sponsor of such other education program or activity takes no action affecting any applicant, student, or employee of such recipient which this part would prohibit such recipient from taking; and
(a) Generally. A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this section (including housing provided only to married students).
(c) Other housing. (1) A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than provided by such recipient.
(2) A recipient which, through solicitation, listing, approval of housing, or otherwise, assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students, shall take such reasonable action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing as is provided to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, is as a whole:
A recipient may provide separate toilet, locker room, and shower facilities on the basis of sex, but such facilities provided for students of one sex shall be comparable to such facilities provided for students of the other sex.
(a) General standard. Except as provided for in this section or otherwise in this part, a recipient shall not provide or otherwise carry out any of its education programs or activities separately on the basis of sex, or require or refuse participation therein by any of its students on the basis of sex.
(1) Contact sports in physical education classes. This section does not prohibit separation of students by sex within physical education classes or activities during participation in wrestling, boxing, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(2) Ability grouping in physical education classes. This section does not prohibit grouping of students in physical education classes and activities by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual performance developed and applied without regard to sex.
(3) Human sexuality classes. Classes or portions of classes in elementary and secondary schools that deal primarily with human sexuality may be conducted in separate sessions for boys and girls.
(b) Classes and extracurricular activities. (1) General standard. Subject to the requirements in this paragraph, a recipient that operates a nonvocational coeducational elementary or secondary school may provide nonvocational single-sex classes or extracurricular activities, if—
(A) To improve educational achievement of its students, through a recipient's overall established policy to provide diverse educational opportunities, provided that the single-sex nature of the class or extracurricular activity is substantially related to achieving that objective; or
(B) To meet the particular, identified educational needs of its students, provided that the single-sex nature of the class or extracurricular activity is substantially related to achieving that objective;
(iv) The recipient provides to all other students, including students of the excluded sex, a substantially equal coeducational class or extracurricular activity in the same subject or activity.
(2) Single-sex class or extracurricular activity for the excluded sex. A recipient that provides a single-sex class or extracurricular activity, in order to comply with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, may be required to provide a substantially equal single-sex class or extracurricular activity for students of the excluded sex.
(3) Substantially equal factors. Factors the Department will consider, either individually or in the aggregate as appropriate, in determining whether classes or extracurricular activities are substantially equal include, but are not limited to, the following: the policies and criteria of admission, the educational benefits provided, including the quality, range, and content of curriculum and other services and the quality and availability of books, instructional materials, and technology, the qualifications of faculty and staff, geographic accessibility, the quality, accessibility, and availability of facilities and resources provided to the class, and intangible features, such as reputation of faculty.
(4) Periodic evaluations. (i) The recipient must conduct periodic evaluations to ensure that single-sex classes or extracurricular activities are based upon genuine justifications and do not rely on overly broad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences of either sex and that any single-sex classes or extracurricular activities are substantially related to the achievement of the important objective for the classes or extracurricular activities.
(5) Scope of coverage. The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) through (4) of this section apply to classes and extracurricular activities provided by a recipient directly or through another entity, but the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) through (4) of this section do not apply to interscholastic, club, or intramural athletics, which are subject to the provisions of §§106.41 and 106.37(c) of this part.
(c) Schools. (1) General Standard. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a recipient that operates a public nonvocational elementary or secondary school that excludes from admission any students, on the basis of sex, must provide students of the excluded sex a substantially equal single-sex school or coeducational school.
(2) Exception. A nonvocational public charter school that is a single-school local educational agency under State law may be operated as a single-sex charter school without regard to the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) Substantially equal factors. Factors the Department will consider, either individually or in the aggregate as appropriate, in determining whether schools are substantially equal include, but are not limited to, the following: The policies and criteria of admission, the educational benefits provided, including the quality, range, and content of curriculum and other services and the quality and availability of books, instructional materials, and technology, the quality and range of extracurricular offerings, the qualifications of faculty and staff, geographic accessibility, the quality, accessibility, and availability of facilities and resources, and intangible features, such as reputation of faculty.
(4) Definition. For the purposes of paragraph (c)(1) through (3) of this section, the term “school” includes a “school within a school,” which means an administratively separate school located within another school.
(b) Use of appraisal and counseling materials. A recipient which uses testing or other materials for appraising or counseling students shall not use different materials for students on the basis of their sex or use materials which permit or require different treatment of students on such basis unless such different materials cover the same occupations and interest areas and the use of such different materials is shown to be essential to eliminate sex bias. Recipients shall develop and use internal procedures for ensuring that such materials do not discriminate on the basis of sex. Where the use of a counseling test or other instrument results in a substantially disproportionate number of members of one sex in any particular course of study or classification, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination in the instrument or its application.
(c) Disproportion in classes. Where a recipient finds that a particular class contains a substantially disproportionate number of individuals of one sex, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination on the basis of sex in counseling or appraisal materials or by counselors.
(1) On the basis of sex, provide different amount or types of such assistance, limit eligibility for such assistance which is of any particular type or source, apply different criteria, or otherwise discriminate;
(2) Through solicitation, listing, approval, provision of facilities or other services, assist any foundation, trust, agency, organization, or person which provides assistance to any of such recipient's students in a manner which discriminates on the basis of sex; or
(3) Apply any rule or assist in application of any rule concerning eligibility for such assistance which treats persons of one sex differently from persons of the other sex with regard to marital or parental status.
(b) Financial aid established by certain legal instruments. (1) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government which requires that awards be made to members of a particular sex specified therein; Provided, That the overall effect of the award of such sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance does not discriminate on the basis of sex.
(i) Students are selected for award of financial assistance on the basis of nondiscriminatory criteria and not on the basis of availability of funds restricted to members of a particular sex;
(ii) An appropriate sex-restricted scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance is allocated to each student selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) No student is denied the award for which he or she was selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section because of the absence of a scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance designated for a member of that student's sex.
(c) Athletic scholarships. (1) To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such awards for members of each sex in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.
(2) Separate athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid for members of each sex may be provided as part of separate athletic teams for members of each sex to the extent consistent with this paragraph and §106.41.
(Authority: Secs. 901, 902, Education Amendments of 1972, 86 Stat. 373, 374; 20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682; and Sec. 844, Education Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93–380, 88 Stat. 484)
(a) Assistance by recipient in making available outside employment. A recipient which assists any agency, organization or person in making employment available to any of its students:
In providing a medical, hospital, accident, or life insurance benefit, service, policy, or plan to any of its students, a recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex, or provide such benefit, service, policy, or plan in a manner which would violate Subpart E of this part if it were provided to employees of the recipient. This section shall not prohibit a recipient from providing any benefit or service which may be used by a different proportion of students of one sex than of the other, including family planning services. However, any recipient which provides full coverage health service shall provide gynecological care.
(a) Status generally. A recipient shall not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status which treats students differently on the basis of sex.
(b) Pregnancy and related conditions. (1) A recipient shall not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such student's pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
(2) A recipient may require such a student to obtain the certification of a physician that the student is physically and emotionally able to continue participation so long as such a certification is required of all students for other physical or emotional conditions requiring the attention of a physician.
(3) A recipient which operates a portion of its education program or activity separately for pregnant students, admittance to which is completely voluntary on the part of the student as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall ensure that the separate portion is comparable to that offered to non-pregnant students.
(4) A recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability with respect to any medical or hospital benefit, service, plan or policy which such recipient administers, operates, offers, or participates in with respect to students admitted to the recipient's educational program or activity.
(5) In the case of a recipient which does not maintain a leave policy for its students, or in the case of a student who does not otherwise qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence for so long a period of time as is deemed medically necessary by the student's physician, at the conclusion of which the student shall be reinstated to the status which she held when the leave began.
(a) General. No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis.
(b) Separate teams. Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try-out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of this part, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(c) Equal opportunity. A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available the Director will consider, among other factors:
Unequal aggregate expenditures for members of each sex or unequal expenditures for male and female teams if a recipient operates or sponsors separate teams will not constitute noncompliance with this section, but the Assistant Secretary may consider the failure to provide necessary funds for teams for one sex in assessing equality of opportunity for members of each sex.
(d) Adjustment period. A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from the effective date of this regulation. A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics at the secondary or post-secondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from the effective date of this regulation.
(Authority: Secs. 901, 902, Education Amendments of 1972, 86 Stat. 373, 374; 20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682; and Sec. 844, Education Amendments of 1974, Pub. L. 93–380, 88 Stat. 484)
If use of a single standard of measuring skill or progress in physical education classes has an adverse effect on members of one sex, the recipient shall use appropriate standards that do not have that effect.
(a) General. (1) No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in employment, or recruitment, consideration, or selection therefor, whether full-time or part-time, under any education program or activity operated by a recipient which receives Federal financial assistance.
(2) A recipient shall make all employment decisions in any education program or activity operated by such recipient in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way which could adversely affect any applicant's or employee's employment opportunities or status because of sex.
(3) A recipient shall not enter into any contractual or other relationship which directly or indirectly has the effect of subjecting employees or students to discrimination prohibited by this subpart, including relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, and with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient.
(4) A recipient shall not grant preferences to applicants for employment on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or entity which admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preferences has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of this part.
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, consideration for and award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, application of nepotism policies, right of return from layoff, and rehiring;
(6) Granting and return from leaves of absence, leave for pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, leave for persons of either sex to care for children or dependents, or any other leave;
(8) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, selection for tuition assistance, selection for sabbaticals and leaves of absence to pursue training;
A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for any employment opportunity which has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless:
(a) Nondiscriminatory recruitment and hiring. A recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and hiring of employees. Where a recipient has been found to be presently discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or hiring of employees, or has been found to have in the past so discriminated, the recipient shall recruit members of the sex so discriminated against so as to overcome the effects of such past or present discrimination.
(b) Recruitment patterns. A recipient shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at entities which furnish as applicants only or predominantly members of one sex if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of this subpart.
(b) Results in the payment of wages to employees of one sex at a rate less than that paid to employees of the opposite sex for equal work on jobs the performance of which requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and which are performed under similar working conditions.
(c) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority systems, career ladders, or tenure systems for similar jobs, position descriptions, or job requirements which classify persons on the basis of sex, unless sex is a bona-fide occupational qualification for the positions in question as set forth in §106.61.
(a) Fringe benefits defined. For purposes of this part, fringe benefits means: Any medical, hospital, accident, life insurance or retirement benefit, service, policy or plan, any profit-sharing or bonus plan, leave, and any other benefit or service of employment not subject to the provision of §106.54.
(1) Discriminate on the basis of sex with regard to making fringe benefits available to employees or make fringe benefits available to spouses, families, or dependents of employees differently upon the basis of the employee's sex;
(2) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a fringe benefit plan which does not provide either for equal periodic benefits for members of each sex, or for equal contributions to the plan by such recipient for members of each sex; or
(3) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a pension or retirement plan which establishes different optional or compulsory retirement ages based on sex or which otherwise discriminates in benefits on the basis of sex.
(2) Which is based upon whether an employee or applicant for employment is the head of household or principal wage earner in such employee's or applicant's family unit.
(b) Pregnancy. A recipient shall not discriminate against or exclude from employment any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.
(c) Pregnancy as a temporary disability. A recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom and any temporary disability resulting therefrom as any other temporary disability for all job related purposes, including commencement, duration and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service, and reinstatement, and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
(d) Pregnancy leave. In the case of a recipient which does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status which she held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.
(a) Prohibitory requirements. The obligation to comply with this subpart is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement which imposes prohibitions or limits upon employment of members of one sex which are not imposed upon members of the other sex.
(b) Benefits. A recipient which provides any compensation, service, or benefit to members of one sex pursuant to a State or local law or other requirement shall provide the same compensation, service, or benefit to members of the other sex.
A recipient shall not in any advertising related to employment indicate preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on sex unless sex is a bona-fide occupational qualification for the particular job in question.
(a) Marital status. A recipient shall not make pre-employment inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for employment, including whether such applicant is “Miss or Mrs.”
(b) Sex. A recipient may make pre-employment inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for employment, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by this part.
A recipient may take action otherwise prohibited by this subpart provided it is shown that sex is a bona-fide occupational qualification for that action, such that consideration of sex with regard to such action is essential to successful operation of the employment function concerned. A recipient shall not take action pursuant to this section which is based upon alleged comparative employment characteristics or stereotyped characterizations of one or the other sex, or upon preference based on sex of the recipient, employees, students, or other persons, but nothing contained in this section shall prevent a recipient from considering an employee's sex in relation to employment in a locker room or toilet facility used only by members of one sex.
The procedural provisions applicable to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. These procedures may be found at 34 CFR 100.6–100.11 and 34 CFR, part 101.
Appendix A to Part 106—Guidelines for Eliminating Discrimination and Denial of Services on the Basis of Race, Color, National Origin, Sex, and Handicap in Vocational Education Programs
Sexual Harassment Guidance:
Skip to main contentAbout UsContact UsFAQs Language Assistance Englishespañol中文: 繁體版Việt-ngữ한국어TagalogРусский
Under Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX) and its
implementing regulations, no individual may be discriminated against on the
basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial
assistance2.  Sexual harassment of students is a form of prohibited
Guidance.  The following types of conduct constitute sexual harassment:
implicitly conditions a student's participation in an education program or
activity or bases an educational decision on the student's submission to
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal,
nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature5.   Quid pro quo
harassment is equally unlawful whether the student resists and suffers the
threatened harm or submits and thus avoids the threatened harm.  Hostile
Environment Sexual Harassment--Sexually harassing conduct (which can include
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal,
nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature)6 by an employee,
by another student, or by a third party that is sufficiently severe,
persistent, or pervasive to limit a student's ability to participate in or
benefit from an education program or activity, or to create a hostile or
Schools are required by the Title IX regulations to have grievance
procedures through which students can complain of alleged sex discrimination,
grievance procedures also provide schools with an excellent mechanism to be
used in their efforts to prevent sexual harassment before it occurs.
expression, a school's obligations may be affected by the application of First
These and other issues are discussed in more detail in the following
Title IX applies to all public and private educational institutions that
receive Federal funds, including elementary and secondary schools, school
districts, proprietary schools, colleges, and universities.  The Guidance uses
the term "schools" to refer to all those institutions.  The "education program
or activity" of a school includes all of the school's operations9.
This means that Title IX protects students in connection with all of the
academic, educational, extra-curricular, athletic, and other programs of the
school, whether they take place in the facilities of the school, on a school
bus, at a class or training program sponsored by the school at another
It is important to recognize that Title IX's prohibition of sexual
harassment does not extend to legitimate nonsexual touching or other nonsexual
conduct.  For example, a high school athletic coach hugging a student who made
a goal or a kindergarten teacher's consoling hug for a child with a skinned
student's demonstration of a sports maneuver or technique requiring contact
with another student will not be considered sexual harassment.  However, in
some circumstances, nonsexual conduct may take on sexual connotations and may
rise to the level of sexual harassment.  For example, a teacher's repeatedly
hugging and putting his or her arms around students under inappropriate
Title IX protects any "person" from sex discrimination;  accordingly both
male and female students are protected from sexual harassment engaged in by a
school's employees, other students, or third parties11.  Moreover,
Title IX prohibits sexual harassment regardless of the sex of the harasser,
i.e., even if the harasser and the person being harassed are members of the
same sex12.  An example would be a campaign of sexually explicit
Although Title IX does not prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual
students may constitute sexual harassment prohibited by Title IX.  For
example, if students heckle another student with comments based on the
student's sexual orientation (e.g., "gay students are not welcome at this
table in the cafeteria"), but their actions or language do not involve sexual
conduct, their actions would not be sexual harassment covered by Title IX.  On
the other hand, harassing conduct of a sexual nature directed toward gay or
lesbian students (e.g., if a male student or a group of male students target a
lesbian student for physical sexual advances) may create a sexually hostile
environment and, therefore, may be prohibited by Title IX.  It should be noted
that some State and local laws may prohibit discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation.  Also, under certain circumstances, courts may permit
redress for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation under other Federal
It is also important to recognize that gender-based harassment, which may
include acts of verbal, nonverbal, or physical aggression, intimidation, or
hostility based on sex, but not involving conduct of a sexual nature, may be a
form of sex discrimination that violates Title IX if it is sufficiently
severe, persistent, or pervasive and directed at individuals because of their
students' laboratory experiments by male students in the class could be the
basis of a violation of Title IX.  Although a comprehensive discussion of
gender-based harassment is beyond the scope of this Guidance, in assessing all
related circumstances to determine whether a hostile environment exists,
incidents of gender-based harassment combined with incidents of sexual
harassment could create a hostile environment, even if neither the
gender-based harassment alone nor the sexual harassment alone would be
A school's liability for sexual harassment by its employees is determined
governing the delegation of authority to or authorization of another person to
Accordingly, a school will always be liable for even one instance of quid
pro quo harassment by a school employee in a position of authority, such as a
teacher or administrator, whether or not it knew, should have known, or
approved of the harassment at issue19.  Under agency principles, if
a teacher or other employee uses the authority he or she is given (e.g., to
assign grades) to force a student to submit to sexual demands, the employee
"stands in the shoes" of the school and the school will be responsible for the
A school will also be liable for hostile environment sexual harassment by
its employees21, i.e., for harassment that is sufficiently severe,
persistent, or pervasive to limit a student's ability to participate in or
benefit from the education program or to create a hostile or abusive
educational environment if the employee -- (1) acted with apparent authority
(i.e., because of the school's conduct, the employee reasonably appears
to be acting on behalf of the school, whether or not the employee acted with
harassment of students by his or her position of authority with the
institution23.  For example, a school will be liable if a teacher
abuses his or her delegated authority over a student to create a hostile
environment, such as if the teacher implicitly threatens to fail a student
unless the student responds to his or her sexual advances, even though the
As this example illustrates, in many cases the line between quid pro quo
and hostile environment discrimination will be blurred, and the employee's
conduct may constitute both types of harassment.  However, what is important
is that the school is liable for that conduct under application of agency
principles, regardless of whether it is labeled as quid pro quo or hostile
Whether other employees, such as a janitor or cafeteria worker, are in
positions of authority in relation to students -- or whether it would be
reasonable for the student to believe the employees are, even if the employees
are not (i.e., apparent authority) -- will depend on factors such as the
elementary schools, a cafeteria worker may have authority to impose
discipline) and the age of the student.  For example, in some cases the
younger a student is, the more likely it is that he or she will consider any
Even in situations not involving (i) quid pro quo harassment, (ii)
creation of a hostile environment through an employee's apparent authority, or
(iii) creation of a hostile environment in which the employee is aided in
carrying out the sexual harassment by his or her position of authority, a
school will be liable for sexual harassment of its students by its employees
under the same standards applicable to peer and third party hostile
environment sexual harassment, as discussed in the next section.  That is, if
the school fails to take immediate and appropriate steps to remedy known
harassment, then the school will be liable under Title IX26.  It is
important to emphasize that under this standard of liability the school can
avoid violating Title IX if it takes immediate and appropriate action upon
In contrast to the variety of situations in which a school may be liable
for sexual harassment by its employees, a school will be liable under Title IX
if its students sexually harass other students if (i) a hostile environment
exists in the school's programs or activities, (ii) the school knows or should
have known of the harassment, and (iii) the school fails to take immediate and
discussed in detail in subsequent sections of the Guidance.)  Under these
circumstances, a school's failure to respond to the existence of a hostile
environment within its own programs or activities permits an atmosphere of
sexual discrimination to permeate the educational program and results in
discrimination prohibited by Title IX.  Conversely, if, upon notice of hostile
environment harassment, a school takes immediate and appropriate steps to
remedy the hostile environment, the school has avoided violating Title IX.
Thus, Title IX does not make a school responsible for the actions of
harassing students, but rather for its own discrimination in failing to remedy
Sexually harassing conduct of third parties, who are not themselves
employees or students at the school (e.g., a visiting speaker or members of a
visiting athletic club) can also cause a sexually hostile environment in
school programs or activities. For the same reason that a school will be
liable under Title IX for a hostile environment caused by its students, a
school will be liable if third parties sexually harass its students if (i) a
hostile environment exists in the school's programs or activities, (ii) the
school knows or should have known of the harassment, and (iii) the school
However, the type of appropriate steps the school should take will differ
depending on the level of control the school has over the third party
Schools are required by the Title IX regulations to adopt and publish
grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of sex
discrimination complaints, including complaints of sexual harassment, and to
disseminate a policy against sex discrimination31.  (These issues
are discussed in the section on "Prompt and Equitable Grievance Procedures.")
These procedures provide a school with a mechanism for discovering sexual
harassment as early as possible and for effectively correcting problems, as
required by Title IX.  By having a strong policy against sex discrimination
and accessible, effective, and fairly applied grievance procedures, a school
is telling its students that it does not tolerate sexual harassment and that
procedures, if the alleged harassment was sufficiently severe, persistent, or
pervasive to create a hostile environment, a school will be in violation of
Title IX because of the existence of a hostile environment, even if the school
This is because, without a policy and procedure, a student does not know
either of the school's interest in preventing this form of discrimination or
how to report harassment so that it can be remedied.  Moreover, under
the agency principles previously discussed, a school's failure to implement
effective policies and procedures against discrimination may create apparent
If OCR is asked to investigate or otherwise resolve incidents of sexual
harassment of students, including incidents caused by employees, other
students, or third parties, OCR will consider whether--(1) the school has a
policy prohibiting sex discrimination under Title IX and effective Title IX
grievance procedures34; (2) the school appropriately investigated
or otherwise responded to allegations of sexual harassment; and (3) the school
has taken immediate and appropriate corrective action responsive to quid pro
quo or hostile environment harassment.  (Issues related to appropriate
investigative and corrective actions are discussed in detail in the section on
"Recipient's Response.")  If the school has taken each of these steps, OCR
will consider the case against the school resolved and take no further action
other than monitoring compliance with any agreement between the school and
OCR.  This is true in cases in which the school was in violation of Title
IX, as well as those in which there has been no violation of Title
unwelcome.  Conduct is unwelcome if the student did not request or invite it
Acquiescence in the conduct or the failure to complain does not always mean
that the conduct was welcome37.  For example, a student may decide
not to resist sexual advances of another student or may not file a complaint
out of fear.  In addition, a student may not object to a pattern of sexually
demeaning comments directed at him or her by a group of students out of a
concern that objections might cause the harassers to make more comments.  The
fact that a student may have accepted the conduct does not mean that he or
participated in conduct on one occasion does not prevent him or her from
indicating that the same conduct has become unwelcome on a subsequent
occasion.  On the other hand, if a student actively participates in sexual
banter and discussions and gives no indication that he or she objects, then
the evidence generally will not support a conclusion that the conduct was
If younger children are involved, it may be necessary to determine the
degree to which they are able to recognize that certain sexual conduct is
conduct to which they can or should reasonably object and the degree to which
they can articulate an objection.  Accordingly, OCR will consider the age of
the student, the nature of the conduct involved, and other relevant factors in
determining whether a student had the capacity to welcome sexual conduct.
Schools should be particularly concerned about the issue of welcomeness
if the harasser is in a position of authority.  For instance, because students
may be encouraged to believe that a teacher has absolute authority over the
operation of his or her classroom, a student may not object to a teacher's
sexually harassing comments during class; however, this does not necessarily
mean that the conduct was welcome.  Instead, the student may believe that any
objections would be ineffective in stopping the harassment or may fear that by
making objections he or she will be singled out for harassing comments or
In addition, OCR must consider particular issues of welcomeness if the
alleged harassment relates to alleged "consensual" sexual relationships
between a school's adult employees and its students.  If elementary students
are involved, welcomeness will not be an issue:  OCR will never view sexual
conduct between an adult school employee and an elementary school student as
consensual.  In cases involving secondary students, there will be a strong
presumption that sexual conduct between an adult school employee and a student
is not consensual.  In cases involving older secondary students, subject to
determining whether a school employee's sexual advances or other sexual
consider these factors in all cases involving postsecondary students in making
If there is a dispute about whether harassment occurred or whether it was
welcome -- in a case in which it is appropriate to consider whether the
conduct could be welcome -- determinations should be made based on the
totality of the circumstances.  The following types of information may be
Hostile environment sexual harassment of a student or students by other
students, employees, or third parties is created if conduct of a sexual nature
is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to limit a student's ability
to participate in or benefit from the education program or to create a hostile
or abusive educational environment.  Thus, conduct that is sufficiently
severe, but not persistent or pervasive, can result in hostile environment
In deciding whether conduct is sufficiently severe, persistent, or
conduct must have limited the ability of a student to participate
in or benefit from his or her education or altered the conditions
harasser and the subject or subjects of the harassment.  A factor
identity of and relationship between the alleged harasser and the
be committed by an individual or a group.  In some cases, verbal
comments or other conduct from one person might not be sufficient
to create a hostile environment, but could be if done by a group.
Similarly, while harassment can be directed toward an individual
may vary, depending on the type of conduct and the context.  For
certain types of conduct, there may be "safety in numbers."  For
example, following an individual student and making sexual taunts
other hand, persistent unwelcome sexual conduct still may create
subjects of the harassment.  For example, in the case of younger
at a small college than at a large university campus.  Harassing
secluded area such as a dormitory room or residence hall can also
would similar conduct in a more public area.  On the other hand,
together -- create a hostile environment, even if each by itself
Acts of verbal, nonverbal, or physical aggression, intimidation,
language, can be combined with incidents of sexual harassment to
determine if the incidents of sexual harassment are sufficiently
notice" of a sexually hostile environment and fails to take immediate and
actually "knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care, should have known"
responsible employee of the school received notice65, the school
A school can receive notice in many different ways.  A student may have
filed a grievance or complained to a teacher about fellow students sexually
harassing him or her.  A student, parent, or other individual may have
contacted other appropriate personnel, such as a principal, campus security,
bus driver, teacher, an affirmative action officer, or staff in the office of
student affairs.  An agent or responsible employee of the school may have
witnessed the harassment.  The school may receive notice in an indirect
manner, from sources such as a member of the school staff, a member of the
educational or local community, or the media.  The school also may have
received notice from flyers about the incident or incidents posted around the
Constructive notice exists if the school "should have" known about the
harassment -- if the school would have found out about the harassment through
a "reasonably diligent inquiry67."  For example, if a school knows
of some incidents of harassment, there may be situations in which it will be
charged with notice of others -- if the known incidents should have triggered
an investigation that would have led to a discovery of the additional
incidents.  In other cases, the pervasiveness of the harassment may be enough
to conclude that the school should have known of the hostile environment -- if
the harassment is widespread, openly practiced, or well-known to students and
staff (such as sexual harassment occurring in hallways, graffiti in public
In addition, if a school otherwise has actual or constructive notice of a
hostile environment and fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective
action, a school has violated Title IX even if the student fails to use the
Once a school has notice of possible sexual harassment of students --
whether carried out by employees, other students, or third parties -- it
should take immediate and appropriate steps to investigate or otherwise
determine what occurred and take steps reasonably calculated to end any
harassment, eliminate a hostile environment if one has been created, and
prevent harassment from occurring again.  These steps are the school's
responsibility whether or not the student who was harassed makes a complaint
or otherwise asks the school to take action69.  As described in the
next section, in appropriate circumstances the school will also be responsible
for taking steps to remedy the effects of the harassment on the individual
student or students who were harassed.  What constitutes a reasonable response
to information about possible sexual harassment will differ depending upon the
If a student or the parent of an elementary or secondary student provides
information or complains about sexual harassment of the student, the school
should initially discuss what actions the student or parent is seeking in
response to the harassment.  The school should explain the avenues for
informal and formal action, including a description of the grievance procedure
that is available for sexual harassment complaints and an explanation of how
the procedure works.  If a responsible school employee or agent has directly
observed sexual harassment of a student, the school should contact the student
student)70, explain that the school is responsible for taking steps
to correct the harassment, and provide the same information described in the
Regardless of whether the student who was harassed, or his or her parent,
decides to file a formal complaint or otherwise request action on the
student's behalf (including in cases involving direct observation by a
responsible school employee or agent), the school must promptly investigate to
determine what occurred and then take appropriate steps to resolve the
situation.  The specific steps in an investigation will vary depending upon
the nature of the allegations, the source of the complaint, the age of the
student or students involved, the size and administrative structure of the
school, and other factors.  However, in all cases the inquiry must be prompt,
thorough, and impartial.  (Requests by the student who was harassed for
confidentiality or for no action to be taken, responding to notice of
harassment from other sources, and the components of a prompt and equitable
grievance procedure are discussed in subsequent sections of the Guidance.)
It may be appropriate for a school to take interim measures during the
investigation of a complaint.  For instance, if a student alleges that he or
she has been sexually assaulted by another student, the school may decide to
immediately place the students in separate classes or in different housing
arrangements on a campus, pending the results of the school's investigation.
Similarly, if the alleged harasser is a teacher, allowing the student to
transfer to a different class may be appropriate.  In cases involving
potential criminal conduct, school personnel should determine whether
appropriate law enforcement authorities should be notified.  In all cases,
schools should make every effort to prevent public disclosure of the names of
all parties involved, except to the extent necessary to carry out an
If a school determines that sexual harassment has occurred, it should
take reasonable, timely, age-appropriate, and effective corrective action,
including steps tailored to the specific situation71.  Appropriate
steps should be taken to end the harassment.  For example, school personnel
may need to counsel, warn, or take disciplinary action against the harasser,
based on the severity of the harassment or any record of prior incidents or
both72.  A series of escalating consequences may be necessary if
the initial steps are ineffective in stopping the harassment73.  In
some cases, it may be appropriate to further separate the harassed student and
the harasser, e.g., by changing housing arrangements74 or directing
the harasser to have no further contact with the harassed student.  Responsive
measures of this type should be designed to minimize, as much as possible,
the burden on the student who was harassed.  If the alleged harasser is not a
student or employee of the recipient, OCR will consider the level of control
the school has over the harasser in determining what response would be
Steps also should be taken to eliminate any hostile environment that has
been created.  For example, if a female student has been subjected to
harassment by a group of other students in a class, the school may need to
deliver special training or other interventions for that class to repair the
educational environment.  If the school offers the student the option of
withdrawing from a class in which a hostile environment occurred, the school
should assist the student in making program or schedule changes and ensure
that none of the changes adversely affect the student's academic record.
Other measures may include, if appropriate, directing a harasser to apologize
to the harassed student.  If a hostile environment has affected an entire
school or campus, an effective response may need to include dissemination of
information, the issuance of new policy statements, or other steps that are
designed to clearly communicate the message that the school does not tolerate
harassment and will be responsive to any student who reports that conduct.
In some situations, a school may be required to provide other services to
the student who was harassed if necessary to address the effects of the
harassment on that student76.  For example, if an instructor gives
a student a low grade because the student failed to respond to his sexual
advances, this constitutes quid pro quo harassment for which the school is
liable under Title IX regardless of whether it knew of the harassment.  Thus,
the school may be required to make arrangements for an independent
reassessment of the student's work, if feasible, and change the grade
accordingly; make arrangements for the student to take the course again with a
different instructor; provide tutoring; make tuition adjustments;  offer
reimbursement for professional counseling; or take other measures that are
appropriate to the circumstances.  As another example, if a school delays
responding or responds inappropriately to information about harassment, such
as a case in which the school ignores complaints by a student that he or
she is being sexually harassed by a classmate, the school will be required to
remedy the effects of the harassment that could have been prevented had the
harassment77 and to prevent any retaliation against the student who
made the complaint (or was the subject of the harassment), against a person
who filed a complaint on behalf of a student, or against those who provided
sure that the harassed students and their parents know how to report any
subsequent problems and making follow-up inquiries to see if there have been
any new incidents or any retaliation.  To prevent recurrences, counseling for
the harasser may be appropriate to ensure that he or she understands what
constitutes harassment and the effects it can have.  In addition, depending on
how widespread the harassment was and whether there have been any prior
incidents, the school may need to provide training for the larger school
community to ensure that students, parents, and teachers can recognize
The scope of a reasonable response also may depend upon whether a
student, or parent of a minor student, reporting harassment asks that the
student's name not be disclosed to the harasser or that nothing be done about
the alleged harassment.  In all cases a school should discuss confidentiality
standards and concerns with the complainant initially.  The school should
inform the student that the request may limit the school's ability to respond.
The school also should tell the student that Title IX prohibits retaliation
and that, if he or she is afraid of reprisals from the alleged harasser, the
school will take steps to try to prevent retaliation and will take strong
responsive actions if retaliation occurs.  If the student continues to ask
that his or her name not be revealed, the school should take all reasonable
steps to investigate and respond to the complaint consistent with that request
as long as doing so does not preclude the school from responding effectively
to the harassment and preventing harassment of other students.  Thus, for
example, a reasonable response would not require disciplinary action against
an alleged harasser if a student, who was the only student harassed, insists
that his or her name not be revealed, and the alleged harasser could not
respond to the charges of sexual harassment without that information.
At the same time, a school should evaluate the confidentiality request in
the context of its responsibility to provide a safe and nondiscriminatory
environment for all students.  The factors a school may consider in this
regard include the seriousness of the alleged harassment, the age of the
student harassed, whether there have been other complaints or reports of
harassment against the alleged harasser, and the rights of the accused
individual to receive information about the accuser and the allegations if a
Although a student's request to have his or her name withheld may limit
the school's ability to respond fully to an individual complaint of
harassment, other means may be available to address the harassment.  There are
steps a recipient can take to limit the effects of the alleged harassment and
prevent its recurrence without initiating formal action against the alleged
harasser or revealing the identity of the complainant.  Examples include
conducting sexual harassment training for the school site or academic
department where the problem occurred, taking a student survey concerning any
problems with harassment, or implementing other systemic measures at the site
In addition, by investigating the complaint to the extent possible --
including by reporting it to the Title IX coordinator or other responsible
school employee designated pursuant to Title IX -- the school may learn about
or be able to confirm a pattern of harassment based on claims by different
students that they were harassed by the same individual.  In some situations
there may be prior reports by former students who now might be willing to come
forward and be identified, thus providing a basis for further corrective
action.  In instances affecting a number of students (for example, a report
from a student that an instructor has repeatedly made sexually explicit
remarks about his or her personal life in front of an entire class), an
individual can be put on notice of allegations of harassing behavior and
counseled appropriately without revealing, even indirectly, the identity of
the student who notified the school.  Those steps can be very effective in
The previous two sections deal with situations in which a student or
parent of a student who was harassed reports or complains of harassment or in
which a responsible school employee or agent directly observes sexual
harassment of a student.  If a school learns of harassment through other
means, for example if information about harassment is received from a third
party (such as from a witness to an incident or an anonymous letter or
telephone call), different factors will affect the school's response.  These
factors include the source and nature of the information;  the seriousness of
the alleged incident; the specificity of the information; the objectivity and
credibility of the source of the report; whether any individuals can be
identified who were subjected to the alleged harassment; and whether those
individuals want to pursue the matter.  If, based on these factors, it is
reasonable for the school to investigate and it can confirm the allegations,
the considerations described in the previous sections concerning interim
For example, if a parent visiting a school observes a student repeatedly
harassing a group of female students and reports this to school officials,
school personnel can speak with the female students to confirm whether that
conduct has occurred and whether they view it as unwelcome.  If the school
determines that the conduct created a hostile environment, it can take
reasonable, age-appropriate steps to address the situation.  If, on the other
hand, the students in this example were to ask that their names not be
disclosed or indicate that they do not want to pursue the matter, the
considerations described in the previous section related to requests for
In a contrasting example, a student newspaper at a large university may
print an anonymous letter claiming that a professor is sexually harassing
students in class on a daily basis, but the letter provides no clue as to the
identity of the professor or the department in which the conduct is allegedly
taking place.  Due to the anonymous source and lack of specificity of the
information, a school would not reasonably be able to investigate and confirm
these allegations.  However, in response to the anonymous letter, the school
could submit a letter or article to the newspaper reiterating its policy
against sexual harassment, encouraging persons who believe that they have
been sexually harassed to come forward, and explaining how its grievance
A policy specifically prohibiting sexual harassment and separate
grievance procedures for violations of that policy can help ensure that all
students and employees understand the nature of sexual harassment and that the
school will not tolerate it.  Indeed, they might even bring conduct of a
sexual nature to the school's attention so that the school can address it
before it becomes sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to create a
hostile environment.  Further, training for administrators, teachers, and
staff and age-appropriate classroom information for students can help to
ensure that they understand what types of conduct can cause sexual harassment
Schools are required by Title IX to adopt and publish a policy against
sex discrimination and grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable
resolution of complaints of discrimination on the basis of sex81.
Accordingly, regardless of whether harassment occurred, a school violates this
requirement of Title IX if it does not have those procedures and policy in
A school's sex discrimination grievance procedures must apply to
complaints of sex discrimination in the school's education programs and
activities filed by students against school employees, other students, or
policy specifically prohibiting sexual harassment or to provide separate
grievance procedures for sexual harassment complaints.  However, its
nondiscrimination policy and grievance procedures for handling discrimination
complaints must provide effective means for preventing and responding to
sexual harassment.  Thus, if, because of the lack of a policy or procedure
specifically addressing sexual harassment, students are unaware of what kind
of conduct constitutes sexual harassment or that that conduct is prohibited
sex discrimination, a school's general policy and procedures relating to sex
OCR has identified a number of elements in evaluating whether a school's
grievance procedures are prompt and equitable, including whether the
Many schools also provide an opportunity to appeal the findings or remedy
or both.  In addition, because retaliation is prohibited by Title IX, schools
may want to include a provision in their procedures prohibiting retaliation
against any individual who files a complaint or participates in a harassment
specificity, and components, reflecting differences in audiences, school sizes
and administrative structures, State or local legal requirements, and past
experience.  In addition, whether complaint resolutions are timely will vary
depending on the complexity of the investigation and the severity and extent
of the harassment.  During the investigation it is a good practice for schools
to inform students who have alleged harassment about the status of the
A grievance procedure applicable to sexual harassment complaints cannot
be prompt or equitable unless students know it exists, how it works, and how
to file a complaint.  Thus, the procedures should be written in language
appropriate to the age of the school's students, easily understood, and widely
disseminated.  Distributing the procedures to administrators, or including
them in the school's administrative or policy manual, may not by itself be an
effective way of providing notice, as these publications are usually not
widely circulated to and understood by all members of the school community.
Many schools ensure adequate notice to students by having copies of the
procedures available at various locations throughout the school or campus;
publishing the procedures as a separate document; including a summary of the
procedures in major publications issued by the school, such as handbooks and
catalogs for students, parents of elementary and secondary students, faculty,
and staff; and identifying individuals who can explain how the procedures
A school must designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts
to comply with and carry out its Title IX responsibilities87.  The
school must notify all of its students and employees of the name, office
designated88. Because it is possible that an employee designated to
handle Title IX complaints may him or herself engage in harassment, a
school may want to designate more than one employee to be responsible for
handling complaints in order to ensure that students have an effective means
number of employees responsible for Title IX matters, it is also advisable to
give one official responsibility for overall coordination and oversight of all
sexual harassment complaints to ensure consistent practices and standards in
handling complaints. Coordination of recordkeeping (for instance, in a
confidential log maintained by the Title IX coordinator) will also ensure that
the school can and will resolve recurring problems and identify students or
Finally, the school must make sure that all designated employees have adequate
training as to what conduct constitutes sexual harassment and are able to
Grievance procedures may include informal mechanisms for resolving sexual
harassment complaints to be used if the parties agree to do so92.
OCR has frequently advised schools, however, that it is not appropriate for a
student who is complaining of harassment to be required to work out the
problem directly with the individual alleged to be harassing him or her, and
certainly not without appropriate involvement by the school (e.g.,
participation by a counselor, trained mediator, or, if appropriate, a teacher
or administrator).  In addition, the complainant must be notified of the right
to end the informal process at any time and begin the formal stage of the
complaint process.  In some cases, such as alleged sexual assaults, mediation
will not be appropriate even on a voluntary basis.  Title IX also permits the
use of a student disciplinary procedure not designed specifically for Title IX
grievances to resolve sex discrimination complaints, as long as the procedure
meets the requirement of affording a complainant a "prompt and equitable"
In some instances, a complainant may allege harassing conduct that
constitutes both sex discrimination and possible criminal conduct.  Police
investigations or reports may be useful in terms of fact-gathering.  However,
because legal standards for criminal conduct are different, police
investigations or reports may not be determinative of whether harassment
occurred under Title IX and do not relieve the school of its duty to respond
results of insurance company investigations of sexual harassment allegations.
The purpose of an insurance investigation is to assess liability under the
insurance policy, and the applicable standards may well be different from
those under Title IX.  In addition, a school is not relieved of its
responsibility to respond to a sexual harassment complaint filed under its
grievance procedure by the fact that a complaint has been filed with
Finally, a public school's employees may have certain due process rights
under the United States Constitution.  The Constitution also guarantees due
process to students in public and State-supported schools who are accused of
certain types of infractions.  The rights established under Title IX must be
interpreted consistently with any federally guaranteed rights involved in a
complaint proceeding.  In both public and private schools, additional or
separate rights may be created for employees or students by State law,
institutional regulations and policies, such as faculty or student handbooks,
and collective bargaining agreements.  Schools should be aware of these rights
and their legal responsibilities to those accused of harassment. Indeed,
procedures that ensure the Title IX rights of the complainant while at the
same time according due process to both parties involved will lead to sound
and supportable decisions.  Schools should ensure that steps to accord due
process rights do not restrict or unnecessarily delay the protections provided
In cases of alleged harassment, the protections of the First Amendment
classroom lectures and discussions)96 and in all other education
programs and activities of public schools (e.g., public meetings and speakers
publications98).  In addition, First Amendment rights apply to the
Title IX is intended to protect students from sex discrimination, not to
regulate the content of speech.  OCR recognizes that the offensiveness of
particular expression as perceived by some students, standing alone, is not a
legally sufficient basis to establish a sexually hostile environment under
Title IX100.  In order to establish a violation of Title IX, the
harassment must be sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to limit a
student's ability to participate in or benefit from the education program or
Moreover, in regulating the conduct of its students and its faculty to
prevent or redress discrimination prohibited by Title IX (e.g., in responding
to harassment that is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive as to
create a hostile environment), a school must formulate, interpret, and apply
its rules so as to protect academic freedom and free speech rights.  For
instance, while the First Amendment may prohibit a school from restricting the
right of students to express opinions about one sex that may be considered
derogatory, the school can take steps to denounce those opinions and ensure
that competing views are heard.  The age of the students involved and the
location or forum may affect how the school can respond consistent with the
speech rights to allegations of sexual harassment, consider the following:
Example 1:  In a college level creative writing class, a professor's
required reading list includes excerpts from literary classics that contain
descriptions of explicit sexual conduct, including scenes that depict women in
submissive and demeaning roles.  The professor also assigns students to write
their own materials, which are read in class.  Some of the student essays
contain sexually derogatory themes about women.  Several female students
complain to the Dean of Students that the materials and related classroom
discussion have created a sexually hostile environment for women in the class.
Answer:  Academic discourse in this example is protected by the First
Amendment even if it is offensive to individuals.  Thus, Title IX would not
require the school to discipline the professor or to censor the reading list
Example 2:  A group of male students repeatedly targets a female student
for harassment during the bus ride home from school, including making explicit
sexual comments about her body, passing around drawings that depict her
engaging in sexual conduct, and, on several occasions, attempting to follow
her home off the bus.  The female student and her parents complain to the
principal that the male students' conduct has created a hostile environment
for girls on the bus and that they fear for their daughter's safety.  What
Answer:  Threatening and intimidating actions targeted at a particular
student or group of students, even though they contain elements of speech, are
not protected by the First Amendment.  The school must take reasonable and
appropriate actions against the students, including disciplinary action if
necessary, to remedy the hostile environment and prevent future harassment.
This Guidance does not address sexual harassment of employees, although
that conduct may be prohibited by Title IX.  If employees bring sexual
harassment claims under Title IX, case law applicable to sexual harassment in
the workplace under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
2000e-2(a), and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) guidelines will
apply.  See 28 CFR 42.604 (Procedures for Complaints of Employment
Discrimination Filed Against Recipients of Federal Financial Assistance).
20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq., as amended; 34 CFR 106.1, 106.31(a)(b).  In
analyzing sexual harassment claims, the Department also applies, as
appropriate to the educational context, many of the legal principles
applicable to sexual harassment in the workplace developed under Title VII.
(1992)(applying Title VII principles in determining that a student was
entitled to protection from sexual harassment by a teacher in school under
Title IX);  Kinman v. Omaha Public School Dist., 94 F.3d 463, 469 (8th Cir.
1996) (applying Title VII principles in determining that a student was
entitled to protection from hostile environment sexual harassment by a teacher
in school under Title IX);  Doe v. Claiborne County, 1996 WL 734583, *19 (6th
Cir. December 26, 1996) (holding in a case involving allegations of hostile
environment sexual harassment of a student by a teacher that Title VII agency
principles apply to sexual harassment cases brought under Title IX); Murray v.
New York University College of Dentistry, 57 F.3d 243, 249 (2nd Cir.
1995) (while finding notice lacking, court applied Title VII principles in
assuming a Title IX cause of action for sexual harassment of a medical student
by a patient visiting the school clinic); Doe v. Petaluma City School Dist.,
830 F.Supp. 1560, 1571-72 (N.D. Cal. 1993) (applying Title VII principles in
and failed to take appropriate corrective action, school liable under Title
IX), rev'd in part on other grounds, 54 F.3d 1447 (9th Cir. 1995); Kadiki v.
Virginia Commonwealth University, 892 F.Supp. 746, 749 (E.D. Va. 1995) (in
Title IX case involving allegations of both quid pro quo and hostile
environment sexual harassment, court indicated that Title VII standards should
In addition, many of the principles applicable to racial harassment under
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq., and Title
VII also apply to sexual harassment under Title IX.  Indeed, Title IX was
modeled on Title VI, Cannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U.S. 677, 694
(1979).  For information on racial harassment, see the Department's Notice of
Investigative Guidance for Racial Harassment, 59 FR 11448 (1994).
Consistent with Supreme Court decisions, see Franklin, 503 U.S. at 75
(expressly ruling that the sexual harassment of a student by a teacher
violates Title IX), the Department has interpreted Title IX as prohibiting
sexual harassment for over a decade.  Kinman, 94 F.3d at 469 (Title IX
prohibits hostile environment sexual harassment of student by teacher).
Moreover, it has been OCR's longstanding practice to apply Title IX to peer
harassment. See also Bosley v. Kearney R-1 School Dist., 904 F.Supp. 1006,
1023 (W.D. Mo. 1995);  Doe v. Petaluma City School Dist., Plaintiff's Motion
for Reconsideration Granted, 1996 WL 432298 (N.D. Cal. July 22, 1996)
(reaffirming Title IX liability for peer harassment if the school knows of the
hostile environment but fails to take remedial action); Burrow v. Postville
Community School District, 929 F.Supp. 1193, 1205 (N.D. Iowa 1996)
(student may bring Title IX cause of action against a school for its knowing
failure to take appropriate remedial action in response to the hostile
environment created by students at the school); Oona R.-S. v. Santa Rosa
City Schools, 890 F.Supp. 1452 (N.D. Cal. 1995); Davis v. Monroe County
Bd. of Education, 74 F.3d 1186, 1193 (11th Cir. 1996) (as Title VII is
violated if a sexually hostile working environment is created by co-workers
and tolerated by the employer, Title IX is violated if a sexually hostile
educational environment is created by a fellow student or students and the
supervising authorities knowingly failed to act to eliminate the harassment),
vacated, reh'g granted, 91 F.3d 1418 (11th Cir. 1996); cf. Murray, 57 F.3d at
249 (while court finds no notice to school, assumes a Title IX cause of action
for sexual harassment of a medical student by a patient visiting school
clinic).  But see note 27.  Of course, OCR has interpreted Title IX as
prohibiting quid pro quo harassment of students for many years.  See Alexander
v. Yale University, 459 F.Supp. 1, 4 (D.Conn. 1977), aff'd, 631 F.2d 178 (2nd
The term "employee" refers to employees and agents of a school.  This
includes persons with whom the school contracts to provide services for the
school.  See Brown v. Hot, Sexy, and Safer Productions, Inc., 68 F.3d 525
(1st Cir. 1995) (Title IX sexual harassment claim brought for school's role in
permitting contract consultant hired by it to create allegedly hostile
In addition, while the standards applicable to peer sexual harassment are
generally applicable to claims of student-on-student harassment, schools will
be liable for the sexual harassment of one student by another student under
the standards applicable to employee-on-student harassment if a student
engages in sexual harassment as an agent or employee of a school.  For
instance, a school would be liable under the standards applicable to quid pro
quo harassment if a student teaching assistant, who has been given the
authority to assign grades, requires a student in his or her class to submit
to sexual advances in order to obtain a certain grade in the class.
Alexander, 459 F.Supp. at 4 (a claim that academic advancement was
conditioned upon submission to sexual demands constitutes a claim of sex
discrimination in education);  Kadiki, 892 F.Supp. at 752 (reexamination in a
course conditioned on college student's agreeing to be spanked should she not
attain a certain grade may constitute quid pro quo harassment); see also
Karibian v. Columbia University, 14 F.3d 773, 777-79 (2nd Cir. 1994) (Title
See e.g., Franklin, 503 U.S. at 63 (conduct of a sexual nature found to
support a sexual harassment claim under Title IX included kissing, sexual
intercourse); Meritor Savings Bank FSB v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57, 60-61 (1986)
(demands for sexual favors, sexual advances, fondling, indecent exposure,
sexual intercourse, rape sufficient to raise hostile environment claim under
Title VII); Harris v. Forklift Systems, Inc., 510 U.S. 17, 114 S.Ct. 367
(1993)(sexually derogatory comments and innuendo may support a sexual
harassment claim under Title VII); Ellison v. Brady, 924 F.2d 872,873-74,
880 (9th Cir. 1991) (allegations sufficient to state a sexual harassment claim
under Title VII included repeated requests for dates, letters making explicit
references to sex and describing the harasser's feelings for plaintiff);
Lipsett v. University of Puerto Rico, 864 F.2d 881, 903-4 (1st Cir. 1988)
(sexually derogatory comments, posting of sexually explicit drawing of
plaintiff, sexual advances may support sexual harassment claim); Kadiki, 892
F.Supp. at 751 (professor's spanking of a university student may constitute
sexual conduct under Title IX); Doe v. Petaluma, 830 F.Supp. at 1564-65
(sexually derogatory taunts and innuendo can be the basis of a harassment
claim);  Denver School Dist. #1, OCR Case No. 08-92-1007 (same as to
allegations of vulgar language and obscenities, pictures of nude women on
office walls and desks, unwelcome touching, sexually offensive jokes, bribery
to perform sexual acts, indecent exposure); Nashoba Regional High School, OCR
Case No. 01-92-1377 (same as to year-long campaign of derogatory, sexually
Davis, 74 F.3d at 1194, vacated, reh'g granted; Doe v. Petaluma, 830
F.Supp. at 1571-73; Moire v. Temple University School of Medicine, 613
F.Supp. 1360, 1366 (E.D. Pa. 1985), aff'd mem., 800 F.2d 1136 (3d Cir.
1986); see also Vinson, 477 U.S. at 67; Lipsett, 864 F.2d at 901; Racial
20 U.S.C. 1687 (codification of Title IX portion of the Civil Rights
10.  See also Shoreline School Dist., OCR Case No. 10-92-1002 (a teacher's
patting student on arm, shoulder, and back, and restraining the student when
he was out of control, not conduct of a sexual nature); Dartmouth Public
Schools, OCR Case No. 01-90-1058 (same as to contact between high school
coach and students); San Francisco State University, OCR Case No.
09-94-2038 (same as to faculty advisor placing her arm around graduate
student's shoulder in posing for a picture); Analy Union High School Dist.,
OCR Case No. 09-92-1249 (same as to drama instructor who put his arms
Cf. John Does 1 v. Covington County School Bd., 884 F.Supp. 462,
464-65 (M.D. Ala. 1995) (male students alleging that teacher sexually
harassed and abused them stated cause of action under Title IX).
Title IX and the regulations implementing it prohibit discrimination "on
the basis of sex;" they do not restrict sexual harassment to those
circumstances in which the harasser only harasses members of the opposite
sex in incidents involving either quid pro quo or hostile environment sexual
harassment.  See 34 CFR 106.31.  In order for hostile environment
harassment to be actionable under Title IX, it must create a hostile or
abusive environment.  This can occur when a student or employee harasses a
member of the same sex.  See Kinman, 94 F.3d at 468 (female student's alleging
sexual harassment by female teacher sufficient to raise a claim under Title
IX); Doe v. Petaluma, 830 F.Supp. at 1564-65, 1575 (female junior high
school student alleging sexual harassment by other students, including both
boys and girls, sufficient to raise claim under Title IX); John Does 1, 884
F.Supp. at 465 (same as to male students' allegations of sexual harassment
and abuse by male teacher.)  It can also occur in certain situations if the
harassment is directed at students of both sexes.  Chiapuzo v. BLT Operating
Co., 826 F.Supp. 1334 (D. Wyo. 1993) (court found that such harassment
In many circumstances, harassing conduct will be on the basis of sex
because the student would not have been subjected to it at all had he or she
been a member of the opposite sex; e.g., if a female student is repeatedly
propositioned by a male student or employee (or, for that matter, if a male
student is repeatedly propositioned by a male student or employee).  In other
circumstances, harassing conduct will be on the basis of sex if the student
would not have been affected by it in the same way or to the same extent had
he or she been a member of the opposite sex; e.g., pornography and sexually
explicit jokes in a mostly male shop class are likely to affect the few girls
In yet other circumstances, the conduct will be on the basis of sex in
that the student's sex was a factor in or affected the nature of the
harasser'sconduct or both.  Thus, in Chiapuzo, a supervisor made demeaning
remarks to both partners of a married couple working for him, e.g., as to
sexual acts he wanted to engage in with the wife and how he would be a better
lover than the husband.  In both cases, according to the court, the remarks
were gender-driven in that they were made with an intent to demean each member
of the couple because of his or her respective sex.  See also Steiner v.
Showboat Operating Co., 25 F.3d 1459, 1463-64 (9th Cir. 1994), cert. denied,
Nashoba Regional High School, OCR Case No. 01-92-1397.  In Conejo
Valley School Dist., OCR Case No. 09-93-1305, female students allegedly
taunted another female student about engaging in sexual activity; OCR found
that the alleged comments were sexually explicit and, if true, would be
sufficiently severe, persistent, and pervasive to create a hostile
Williamson v. A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., 876 F.2d 69 (8th Cir. 1989,
cert. denied 493 U.S. 1089 (1990) (Title VII case); DeSantis v. Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co., Inc., 608 F.2d 327 (9th Cir. 1979) (same); Blum v. Gulf Oil Corp.,
See Nabozny v. Podlesny, 92 F.3d 446 (7th Cir. 1996) (holding that a
gay student could maintain claims alleging discrimination based on both
gender and sexual orientation under the Equal Protection Clause of the United
States Constitution in case in which school district officials allegedly
protect the student to the same extent that other students were protected from
harassment and harm by other students due to the student's gender and sexual
See Vinson, 477 U.S. at 65-66; Harris, 114 S.Ct. at 370-371; see also
Hicks v. Gates Rubber Co., 833 F.2d 1406, 1416 (10th Cir. 1987) (Title VII
case); McKinney v. Dole, 765 F.2d 1129, 1138 (D.C. Cir. 1985) (Title VII
case; physical, but non-sexual, assault could be sex-based harassment if
shown to be unequal treatment that would not have taken place but for the
employee's sex); Cline v. General Electric Capital Auto Lease, Inc., 757
See Harris, 114 S.Ct. at 370-371; Andrews v. City of Philadelphia, 895
F.2d 1469, 1485-86 (3rd Cir. 1990) (Title VII case; court directed trial court
to consider sexual conduct as well as theft of female employees' files and
work, destruction of property, and anonymous phone calls in determining if
there had been sex discrimination); see also Hall v. Gus Construction Co.,
842 F.2d 1010, 1014 (8th Cir. 1988) (Title VII case); Hicks, 833 F.2d at
1415; Eden Prairie Schools, Dist. #272, OCR Case No. 05-92- 1174 (the boys
made lewd comments about male anatomy and tormented the girls by
pretending to stab them with rubber knives; while the stabbing was not sexual
conduct, it was directed at them because of their sex, i.e., because they were
The Supreme Court has ruled that agency principles apply in determining
an employer's liability under Title VII for the harassment of its employees by
supervisors.  See Vinson, 477 U.S. at 72.  These principles would govern in
Title IX cases involving employees who are harassed by their supervisors.
See 28 CFR 42.604 (regulations providing for handling employment
discrimination complaints by Federal agencies; requiring agencies to apply
Title VII law if applicable).  These same principles should govern the
of educational institutions under Title IX for the harassment of students by
teachers and other school employees in positions of authority.  See Franklin,
The Supreme Court in Vinson did not alter the standard developed in the
lower Federal courts whereby an institution is absolutely liable for quid pro
quo sexual harassment whether or not it knew, should have known, or
approved of the harassment at issue.  477 U.S. at 70-71;  see also Lipsett,
864 F.2d at 901; EEOC Notice N-915-050, March 1990, Policy Guidance on
Current Issues of Sexual Harassment, at p. 21.  This standard applies in the
school context as well.  Kadiki, 892 F.Supp. at 752 (for the purposes of quid
pro quo harassment of a student, professor is in similar position as workplace
Kadiki, 892 F.Supp. at 754-755; cf. Martin v. Cavalier Hotel Corp., 48
F.3d 1343, 1351 n.3 (4th Cir. 1995) (Title VII case);  Karibian, 14 F.3d at
777-78; Henson v. City of Dundee, 682 F.2d 897, 910 (11th Cir. 1982) (Title
(finding an employer liable under Title VII for sexual harassment of an
employee in case in which the Manager used his apparent authority to
commit the harassment; the Manager was delegated full authority to hire, fire,
promote, and discipline employees and used the authority to accomplish the
harassment; and company policy required employees to report harassment to
the Manager with no other grievance process made available to them).
See Restatement (Second) of Agency §219(2)(d); EEOC Policy Guidance
on Current Issues of Sexual Harassment at p. 28; Karibian, 14 F.3d at 780;
Hirschfeld v. New Mexico Corrections Dept., 916 F.2d 572, 579 (10th Cir.
1990) (Title VII case); Martin, 48 F.3d at 1352.  But see Rosa H. v. San
Elizario Ind. School Dist., 1997 U.S. App. LEXIS 2780 (5th Cir. Feb. 17,
1997).  In San Elizario the Fifth Circuit reversed a jury finding that a
school district was liable under Title IX for a hostile environment created by
the school's male karate instructor, who repeatedly initiated sexual
intercourse with a fifteen year old female karate student.  The court held,
contrary to OCR policy, that a school could not be found liable under Title IX
However, language in this and previous decisions indicates that Title IX
law is evolving in the Fifth Circuit.  When OCR investigates complaints
involving schools in the Fifth Circuit (Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi), it
will in each case determine and follow the current applicable law.  In light
the evolving case law in the Fifth Circuit, adhering to the standards in the
Guidance may be the best way for schools in these States to ensure
compliance with the requirements of Title IX.  School personnel should also
consider whether State, local, or other Federal authority affect their
environment harassment in case in which allegations were that a supervisor
coerced employee into a sexual relationship by, among other things, telling
her she "'owed him' for all he was doing for her as her supervisor"); Sparks
Pilot Freight Carriers, Inc., 830 F.2d 1554, 1558-60 (11th Cir. 1987) (Title
VII case holding employer liable for sexually hostile environment created by
supervisor who repeatedly reminded the harassed employee that he could fire
The overwhelming majority of courts that have considered the issue of
sexually hostile environments caused by peers have indicated that schools
may be liable under Title IX for their knowing failure to take appropriate
actions to remedy the hostile environment.  See note 7 and peer hostile
environment cases cited in note 3.  However, one Federal Circuit Court of
Appeals decision, Rowinsky v. Bryan Independent School Dist., 80 F.3d 1006
(5th Cir. 1996), cert. denied, 117 S.Ct. 165 (1996), has held to the contrary.
In that case, over a strong dissent, the court rejected the authority of other
Federal courts and OCR's longstanding construction of Title IX and held that
a school district is not liable under Title IX for peer harassment unless "the
school district itself directly discriminated based on sex," i.e., the school
responded differently to sexual harassment or similar claims of girls versus
boys.  For cases specifically rejecting the Rowinsky interpretation, see e.g.,
Doe v. Petaluma, Plaintiff's Motion for Reconsideration Granted, 1996 WL
432298 *6 (N.D. Cal. 1996); Burrow v. Postville Community School Dist.,
OCR believes that the Rowinsky decision misinterprets Title IX.  As
explained in this Guidance, Title IX does not make a school responsible for
the actions of the harassing student, but rather for its own discrimination in
failing to take immediate and appropriate steps to remedy the hostile
environment once a school official knows about it.  If a student is sexually
harassed by a fellow student, and a school official knows about it, but does
not stop it, the school is permitting an atmosphere of sexual discrimination
to permeate the educational program.  The school is liable for its own action,
or lack of action, in response to this discrimination.  Notably, Title VII
cases that hold that employers are responsible for remedying hostile
environment harassment of one worker by a co-worker apply this same standard.
See, e.g., Ellison v. Brady, 924 F.2d at 881-82; Hall v. Gus Construction Co.,
842 F.2d 1010 (8th Cir. 1988); Hunter v. Allis-Chalmers Corp., 797 F.2d 1417
(7th Cir. 1986); Snell v. Suffolk, 782 F.2d 1094 (2nd Cir. 1986); Robinson v.
Language in subsequent decisions indicates that Title IX law is evolving
in the Fifth Circuit.  When OCR investigates complaints involving schools in
States in the Fifth Circuit (Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi), it will in
each case determine and follow the current applicable law.  However, the
existence of Fifth Circuit decisions that are inconsistent with OCR policy
does not prohibit schools in these States from following the Guidance.  In
order to ensure students a safe and nondiscriminatory educational environment,
the better practice is for these schools to follow the Guidance.  Thus,
schools should take prompt corrective action to address peer harassment of
which they knew or should have known.  Indeed, following the Guidance may be
the safest way for schools in these States to ensure compliance with the
As with peer harassment by its own students, a school's liability for the
harassment of its students by third parties is based on its obligation to
provide an environment free of discrimination.  Murray, 57 F.3d at 250
(student participating in university dental clinic providing services to the
public alleged harassment by a patient; while the court ruled in defendant's
favor because of lack of notice, it considered such a claim actionable under
Title IX); Racial Harassment Investigative Guidance, 59 FR 11450 (referring
to harassment by neighborhood teenagers, guest speaker, and parents).  See,
e.g., 29 CFR 1604.11(e); Sparks v. Regional Medical Ctr., 792 F.Supp. 735,
738 n.1 (N.D. Ala. 1992) (Title VII case); Powell v. Las Vegas Hilton Corp.,
841 F.Supp. 1024, 1027-28 (D. Nev. 1992) (Title VII case); Magnuson v.
Peak Technical Servs., Inc., 808 F.Supp. 500, 512-13 (E.D. Va. 1992) (Title
VII case); EEOC v. Sage Realty Corp., 507 F.Supp. 599, 611 (S.D.N.Y.
1981) (Title VII case); cf. Dornhecker v. Malibu Grand Prix Corp., 828 F.2d
307 (5th Cir. 1987) (assuming Title VII required employer to respond
appropriately to sexual harassment of an employee by a contractor, but
finding employer's response sufficient).  See also Restatement (Second) of
For example, if athletes from a visiting team harass the home school's
students, the home school may not be able to discipline the athletes.
However, it could encourage the other school to take appropriate action to
prevent further incidents; if necessary, the home school may choose not to
invite the other school back.  Cf. Danna v. New York Telephone Co., 752
F.Supp. 594, 611 (S.D.N.Y. 1990) (telephone company in violation of Title
VII for not taking sufficient action to protect its own employee from sexually
explicit graffiti at airport where she was assigned to work, e.g., contacting
airport management to see what remedial measures could be taken).
See Racial Harassment Investigative Guidance, 59 FR 11450;  Murray,
57 F.3d at 249 (an employer is liable for the harassment of co-workers if the
employer "either provided no reasonable avenue for complaint or knew of the
EEOC Policy Guidance at p. 25 ("* * * in the absence of a strong,
widely disseminated, and consistently enforced employer policy against
sexual harassment, and an effective complaint procedure, employees could
reasonably believe that a harassing supervisor's actions will be ignored,
If OCR finds a violation of Title IX, it will seek to obtain an agreement
with the school to voluntarily correct the violation.  The agreement will set
out the specific steps the school will take and provide for monitoring by OCR
to ensure that the school complies with the agreement.  Schools should note
that the Supreme Court has held that monetary damages are available as a
remedy in private lawsuits brought to redress violations of Title IX.
Franklin, 503 U.S. at 76.  Of course, a school's immediate and appropriate
remedial actions are relevant in determining the nature and extent of the
[T]he fact that sex-related conduct was "voluntary," in the sense that
the complainant was not forced to participate against her will, is not a
defense to a sexual harassment suit brought under Title VII * * *.  The
correct inquiry is whether [the subject of the harassment] by her conduct
indicated that the alleged sexual advances were unwelcome, not whether her
actual participation in sexual intercourse was voluntary.  Vinson, 477 U.S. at
Lipsett, 864 F.2d at 898 (while, in some instances, a person may have
responsibility for telling the harasser directly that the conduct is
unwelcome, in other cases a "consistent failure to respond to suggestive
comments or gestures may be sufficient ***."); Danna, 752 F.Supp. at 612
(despite female employee's own foul language and participation in graffiti
writing, her complaints to management indicated that the harassment was not
welcome);  see also Carr v. Allison Gas Turbine Div., GMC, 32 F.3d 1007, 1011
(7th Cir. 1994) (Title VII case; cursing and dirty jokes by female employee
did not show that she welcomed the sexual harassment, given her frequent
complaints about it:  "Even if ... [the employee's] testimony that she talked
and acted as she did [only] in an effort to be 'one of the boys' is ...
discounted, her words and conduct cannot be compared to those of the men
and used to justify their conduct....  The asymmetry of positions must be
considered.  She was one woman; they were many men.  Her use of [vulgar]
Reed v. Shepard, 939 F.2d 484, 486-87, 491-92 (7th Cir. 1991) (no
harassment found under Title VII in case in which female employee not only
tolerated, but also participated in and instigated the suggestive joking
activities about which she was now complaining); Weinsheimer v. Rockwell
Int'l Corp., 794 F.Supp. 1559, 1563-64 (M.D. Fla. 1990) (same, in case in
which general shop banter was full of vulgarity and sexual innuendo by men
and women alike, and plaintiff contributed her share to this atmosphere).
However, even if a student participates in the sexual banter, OCR may in
certain circumstances find that the conduct was nevertheless unwelcome if,
for example, a teacher took an active role in the sexual banter and a student
reasonably perceived that the teacher expected him or her to participate.
implementing policies prohibiting sexual conduct or sexual relationships
In Harris, the Supreme Court explained the requirement for considering
the "subjective perspective" when determining the existence of a hostile
environment.  The Court stated:  "...if the victim does not subjectively
perceive the environment to be abusive, the conduct has not actually altered
the conditions of the victim's employment, and there is no Title VII
The Supreme Court used a "reasonable person" standard in Harris, 114
S.Ct. at 370-71 to determine whether sexual conduct constituted harassment.
This standard has been applied under Title VII to take into account the sex of
the subject of the harassment, see, e.g., Ellison, 924 F.2d at 878-79
(applying a "reasonable women" standard to sexual harassment), and has been
adapted to sexual harassment in education, Davis, 74 F.3d at 1126 (relying on
Harris to adopt an objective, reasonable person standard), vacated, reh'g
granted;  Patricia H. v. Berkeley Unified School Dist., 830 F. Supp. 1288,
1296 (N.D. Cal. 1993) (adopting a "reasonable victim" standard and referring
to OCR's use of it); Racial Harassment Guidance, 59 FR 11452 (the standard
must take into account the characteristics and circumstances of victims on a
Harris, 114 S.Ct. at 371; See Racial Harassment Guidance, 59 FR 11449
and 11452; Brock v. United States, 64 F.3d 1421, 1423 (9th Cir. 1995) (Title
VII case); Simon v. Morehouse Sch. of Medicine, 908 F.Supp. 959, 969-970
(N.D. Ga. 1995) (Title VII case); Al- Dabbagh v. Greenpeace, Inc., 873
F.Supp. 1105, 1111-12 (N.D. Ill. 1994) (Title VII case); Watts v. N.Y.C.
Police Dept., 724 F.Supp. 99, 104 (S.D.N.Y. 1989) (Title VII case).
Davis, 74 F.3d at 1126 (no Title IX violation unless the conduct has
"actually altered the conditions of [the student's] learning environment"),
vacated, reh'g granted; Lipsett, 864 F.2d at 898 ("altered" the educational
environment); Patricia H., 830 F. Supp. at 1297 (sexual harassment could be
found where conduct interfered with student's ability to learn); see also
See e.g., Doe v Petaluma, 830 F. Supp at 1566 (student so upset about
harassment by other students that she was forced to transfer several times,
including finally to a private school); Modesto City Schools, OCR Case No.
09-93-1391 (evidence showed that one girl's grades dropped while the
harassment was occurring); Weaverville Elementary School, OCR Case No.
09-91-1116 (students left school due to the harassment).  Compare with
College of Alameda, OCR Case No. 09-90-2104 (student not in instructor's
class and no evidence of any effect on student's educational benefits or
See Harris, 114 S.Ct. at 371, in which the Court held that tangible harm
is not required.  In determining whether harm is sufficient, several factors
to be considered, including frequency, severity, whether the conduct was
threatening or humiliating versus a mere offensive utterance, and whether it
unreasonably interfered with work performance.  No single factor is required;
See Modesto City Schools, OCR Case No. 09-93-1391 (evidence showed
that several girls were afraid to go to school because of the harassment).
See Waltman v. Int'l Paper Co., 875 F.2d 468, 477 (5th Cir. 1989) (Title
VII case); see also Hall, 842 F.2d at 1015 (evidence of sexual harassment
directed at others is relevant to show hostile environment under Title VII);
See, e.g., Andrews, 895 F.2d at 1484 ("Harassment is pervasive when
'incidents of harassment occur either in concert or with regularity'.");
v. Maries County, 792 F.2d 746, 749 (8th Cir. 1986) (Title VII case);
Downes v. Federal Aviation Administration, 775 F.2d 288, 293 (D.C. Cir.
1985) (same); cf. Scott v. Sears, Roebuck and Co., 798 F.2d 210, 214 (7th
Cir. 1986) (Title VII case; conduct was not pervasive or debilitating).
stated: "The Commission will presume that the unwelcome, intentional
touching of [an employee's] intimate body areas is sufficiently offensive to
alter the conditions of her working environment and constitute a violation of
Title VII.  More so than in the case of verbal advances or remarks, a single
unwelcome physical advance can seriously poison the victim's working
Harassment, p. 17.  See also Barrett v. Omaha National Bank, 584 F. Supp.
22, 30 (D. Neb. 1983), aff'd, 726 F.2d 424 (8th Cir. 1984) (hostile
environment created under Title VII by isolated events, i.e., occurring while
traveling to and during a two-day conference, including the co-worker's
talking to plaintiff about sexual activities and touching her in offensive
manner while they were inside a vehicle from which she could not escape).
See also Ursuline College, OCR Case No. 05-91-2068 (A single incident
of comments on a male student's muscles arguably not sexual; however,
assuming they were, not severe enough to create a hostile environment).
Patricia H., 830 F.Supp. at 1297 ("grave disparity in age and power"
between teacher and student contributed to the creation of a hostile
environment); Summerfield Schools, OCR Case No. 15-92- 1929 ("impact of
the ... remarks was heightened by the fact that the coach is an adult in a
position of authority"); cf. Doe v. Taylor I.S.D., 15 F.3d 443 (5th Cir.
1994), cert. denied, 115 S.Ct. 70 (1994) (Sec. 1983 case; in finding that a
sexual relationship between a high school teacher and a student was unlawful,
court considered the influence that the teacher had over the student by virtue
See, e.g., McKinney, 765 F.2d at 1138-40; Robinson, 760 F. Supp. at
See also Barrett, 584 F. Supp. at 24 (harassment occurring in a car from
which the plaintiff could not escape was deemed particularly severe).
See also Hall, 842 F.2d at 1015 (incidents of sexual harassment directed
at other employees); Hicks, 833 F.2d at 1415-16 (same). Cf. Midwest
City-Del City Public Schools, OCR Case No. 06- 92-1012 (finding of racially
hostile environment based in part on several racial incidents at school
shortly before incidents in complaint, a number of which involved the same
See note 17.  In addition, incidents of racial or national origin
harassment directed at a particular individual may also be aggregated with
incidents of sexual or gender harassment directed at that individual in
determining the existence of a hostile environment.  Hicks, 833 F.2d at 1416;
Jefferies v. Harris Community Action Ass'n, 615 F.2d 1025, 1032 (5th Cir.
In addition, even if there is no notice, schools may be liable for sexual
harassment.  See previous discussions of liability in situations involving
quid pro quo harassment and hostile environment sexual harassment by employees
in situations in which the employee acted with apparent authority or was
aided in carrying out the harassment of students by his or her position of
See Ellison v. Brady, 924 F.2d 872, 881 (9th Cir. 1991), quoting EEOC
v. Hacienda Hotel, 881 F.2d 1504, 1515-1516 (9th Cir. 1989) (Title VII
cases); Swentek v. USAir, 830 F.2d 552, 558 (4th Cir. 1987), quoting Katz v.
But see Rosa H. v. San Elizario Indep. School Dist., 1997 U.S. App.
LEXIS 2780 (5th Cir. Feb. 17, 1997) and note 23.  In San Elizario, the Fifth
Circuit held, among other things, that liability for hostile environment
harassment cannot attach where the school has only constructive notice of the
Whether an employee is an agent or responsible school employee, or
whether it would be reasonable for a student to believe the employee is, even
if the employee is not, will vary depending on factors such as the authority
With respect to the notice provisions applicable to schools under Title
one Federal Circuit Court of Appeals decision, Canutillo Indep. School Dist.
v. Leija, 101 F.3d 393, 398-400 (5th Cir. 1996), has held, contrary to OCR
policy, that a school district was not liable in a case in which one of its
teachers sexually molested a second grade student, because the student and
her mother only reported the harassment to her homeroom teacher.
Notwithstanding that a school handbook instructed students and parents to
report complaints to the child's primary or homeroom teacher, the court held
that notice must be given to "someone with authority to take remedial
action."  See also Rosa H. v. San Elizario Indep. School Dist., 1997 U.S.
App. LEXIS 2780 (5th Cir. Feb. 17, 1997), and notes 23 and 64.  In San
Elizario, the Fifth Circuit held, among other things, that although the
fifteen year old student, whose karate instructor had repeatedly initiated
sexual intercourse, "was subject to discrimination on the basis of sex," a
school district is only liable if an employee who has been invested by the
school board with supervisory power over the offending employee actually knew
of the abuse, had the power to end the abuse, and failed to do so.
Based on these and other decisions, Title IX law is evolving in the Fifth
Circuit.  When OCR investigates complaints involving schools in States in
the Fifth Circuit (Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi), it will in each case
determine and follow the current applicable law.  However, the existence of
Fifth Circuit decisions that are inconsistent with OCR policy does not
prohibit schools in these States from following the Guidance.  In order to
ensure students a safe and nondiscriminatory educational environment, it is
the better practice for these schools to follow the Guidance.  For example,
the better practice is for schools to ensure that teachers and other personnel
recognize and report sexual harassment of students to the appropriate school
staff so that schools can take prompt corrective action and ensure a safe
educational environment.  In addition, the Guidance makes clear that
providing students with several avenues to report sexual harassment is a very
helpful means for addressing and preventing sexually harassing conduct in the
first place.   Schools in States in the Fifth Circuit should also consider
whether State, local or other Federal laws may affect their responsibilities
Racial Harassment Guidance, 59 FR 11450 (discussing how a school
See Yates v. Avco Corp., 819 F.2d 630, 634-36 (6th Cir. 1987) (Title
VII case); Katz v. Dole, 709 F.2d 251, 256 (4th Cir. 1983) (same); See also
Cf. Katz, 709 F.2d at 256 (the employer "should have been aware of
the...problem both because of its pervasive character and because of Katz'
specific complaints..."); Smolsky v. Consolidated Rail Corp., 780 F. Supp.
283, 293 (E.D. Pa. 1991), reconsideration denied, 785 F. Supp. 71 (E.D. Pa.
1992) ("where the harassment is apparent to all others in the work place,
supervisors and coworkers, this may be sufficient to put the employer on
notice of the sexual harassment" under Title VII); Jensen v. Eveleth Taconite
Co., 824 F. Supp. 847, 887 (D. Minn. 1993) (Title VII case; "[s]exual
harassment...was so pervasive that an inference of knowledge arises....The
acts of sexual harassment detailed herein were too common and continuous to
have escaped Eveleth Mines had its management been reasonably alert");
Cummings v. Walsh Construction Co., 561 F. Supp. 872, 878 (S.D. Ga.
1983) ("...allegations not only of the [employee] registering her complaints
with her foreman...but also that sexual harassment was so widespread that
defendant had constructive notice of it" under Title VII); but see Murray, 57
F.3d at 250-51 (that other students knew of the conduct was not enough to
charge the school with notice, particularly in case in which these students
may not have been aware that the conduct was offensive or abusive).
Schools have an obligation to ensure that the educational environment is
free of discrimination and cannot fulfill this obligation without determining
In some situations, for example, if a playground supervisor observes a
young student repeatedly engaging in conduct toward other students that is
clearly unacceptable under the school's policies, it may be appropriate for
the school to intervene without contacting the other students.  It may still
be necessary for the school to talk with the students (and parents of
elementary and secondary students) afterwards, e.g., to determine the extent
Cf. Bundy v. Jackson, 641 F.2d 934, 947 (D.C. Cir. 1981) (employers
should take corrective and preventive measures under Title VII); accord,
Jones v. Flagship Int'l, 793 F.2d 714, 719-720 (5th Cir. 1986) (employer
should take prompt remedial action under Title VII).  Racial Harassment
employer's remedial action under Title VII will depend on the severity and
persistence of the harassment and the effectiveness of any initial remedial
steps); Dornhecker v. Malibu Grand Prix Corp., 828 F.2d 307, 309-10 (5th
Cir. 1987) (Title VII case; employer arranged for victim to no longer work
Intlekofer v. Turnage, 973 F.2d 773 (9th Cir. 1992) (Title VII case)
(holding that the employer's response was insufficient and that more severe
disciplinary action was necessary in situations in which counseling,
separating the parties, and warnings of possible discipline were ineffective
Offering assistance in changing living arrangements is one of the actions
required of colleges and universities by the Campus Security Act in cases of
University of California at Santa Cruz, OCR Case No. 09-93- 2141
(extensive individual and group counseling); Eden Prairie Schools, Dist. #272,
Even if the harassment stops without the school's involvement, the
school may still need to take steps to prevent or deter any future harassment
-- to inform the school community that harassment will not be tolerated.
Fuller v. City of Oakland, 47 F.3d 1522, 1528-29 (9th Cir. 1995).
100.7(e).  Title IX prohibits intimidation, threats, coercion, or
discrimination against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any
large number of students harassed by an employee, the extended period of
time over which the harassment occurred, and the failure of several of the
students to report the harassment, school committed as part of corrective
action plan to providing training for students); Los Medanos College, OCR
Case No. 09-84-2092 (as part of corrective action plan, school committed to
providing sexual harassment seminar for campus employees); Sacramento
City Unified School Dist., OCR Case No. 09-83-1063 (same as to workshops
for management and administrative personnel, in-service training for
In addition, if information about the incident is contained in an
"education record" of the student alleging the harassment, as defined in the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. 1232g, the
school should consider whether FERPA would prohibit the school from
disclosing information without the student's consent.  Id.  In evaluating
whether FERPA would limit disclosure, the Department does not interpret
FERPA to override any federally protected due process rights of a school
34 CFR 106.8(b).  This requirement has been part of the Title IX
regulations since their inception in 1975.  Thus, schools have been required
to have these procedures in place since that time.  At the elementary and
secondary level, this responsibility generally lies with the school district.
At the postsecondary level, there may be a procedure for a particular campus
While a school is required to have a grievance procedure under which
complaints of sex discrimination (including sexual harassment) can be filed,
It is the Department's current position under the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) that a school cannot release information to a
complainant regarding disciplinary action imposed on a student found guilty
of harassment if that information is contained in a student's education record
unless--(1) the information directly relates to the complainant (e.g., an
order requiring the student harasser not to have contact with the
complainant); or (2) the harassment involves a crime of violence or a sex
offense in a postsecondary institution.  See note 80.  If the alleged harasser
is a teacher, administrator, or other non-student employee, FERPA would not
limit the school's ability to inform the complainant of any disciplinary
Sonoma State University, OCR Case No. 09-93-2131.  This is true for formal
as well as informal complaints.  See University of Maine at Machias, OCR
Case No. 01-94-6001 (school's new procedures not found in violation of Title
IX in part because they require written records for informal as well as formal
resolutions).  These records need not be kept in a student's or employee's
individual file, but instead may be kept in a central confidential location.
93-2047, the College was found to have violated Title IX in part because the
person identified by the school as the Title IX coordinator was unfamiliar
with Title IX, had no training, and did not even realize he was the
Indeed, in University of Maine at Machias, OCR Case No. 01-94- 6001,
OCR found the school's procedures to be inadequate because only formal
complaints were investigated.  While a school isn't required to have an
established procedure for resolving informal complaints, they nevertheless
must be addressed in some way.  However, if there are indications that the
same individual may be harassing others, then it may not be appropriate to
resolve an informal complaint without taking steps to address the entire
response determined to be insufficient in case in which it stopped its
investigation after complaint filed with police); Mills Public School Dist.,
OCR Case No. 01-93-1123 (not sufficient for school to wait until end of
Cf. EEOC v. Board of Governors of State Colleges and Universities, 957
F.2d 424 (7th Cir.) (Title VII case), cert. denied, 113 S.Ct. 299 (1992);
The First Amendment applies to entities and individuals that are State
actors.  The receipt of Federal funds by private schools does not directly
subject those schools to the U.S. Constitution.  See Rendell-Baker v. Kohn,
457 U.S. 830, 840 (1982).  However, all actions taken by OCR must comport
with First Amendment principles, even in cases involving private schools that
See, e.g., George Mason University, OCR Case No. 03-94-2086 (law
professor's use of a racially derogatory word, as part of an instructional
hypothetical regarding verbal torts, did not constitute racial harassment);
Portland School Dist. 1J, OCR Case No. 10-94-1117 (reading teacher's choice
to substitute a less offensive term for a racial slur when reading an
historical novel aloud in class constituted an academic decision on
University, 993 F.2d 386 (4th Cir. 1993) (fraternity skit in which white male
student dressed as an offensive caricature of a black female constituted
See Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, OCR Case No.
04-92-2054 (no discrimination in case in which campus newspaper, which
welcomed individual opinions of all sorts, printed article expressing one
Tinker v. Des Moines Indep. Community Sch. Dist., 393 U.S. 503, 506
(1969) (neither students nor teachers shed their constitutional rights to
freedom of expression at the schoolhouse gates); Cf. Cohen v. San
Bernardino Valley College, (college professor could not be punished for his
longstanding teaching methods, which included discussion of controversial
subjects such as obscenity and consensual sex with children, under an
unconstitutionally vague sexual harassment policy); George Mason
University, OCR Case No. 03-94-2086 (law professor's use of a racially
derogatory word, as part of an instructional hypothetical regarding verbal
See, e.g., University of Illinois, OCR Case No. 05-94-2104 (fact that
university's use of Native American symbols was offensive to some Native
American students and employees was not dispositive, in and of itself, in
See Vinson, 477 U.S. at 67 (the "mere utterance of an ethnic or racial
epithet which engenders offensive feelings in an employee" would not affect
the conditions of employment to a sufficient degree to violate Title VII),
quoting Henson, 682 F.2d at 904; cf. R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul, 505 U.S.
377, 389 (1992) (citing with approval EEOC's sexual harassment guidelines).
Compare Bethel School Dist. No. 403 v. Fraser, 478 U.S. 675, 685
(1986) (Court upheld discipline of high school student for making lewd
speech to student assembly, noting that "[t]he undoubted freedom to advocate
unpopular and controversial issues in schools and classrooms must be
balanced against the society's countervailing interest in teaching students
the boundaries of socially appropriate behavior."), with Iota XI 993 F.2d 386
(holding that, notwithstanding a university's mission to create a culturally
diverse learning environment and its substantial interest in maintaining a
campus free of discrimination, it could not punish students who engaged in
Our mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access.
Notices FOIAPrivacy PolicyAccessibilitySecurityInformation qualityInspector GeneralWhitehouse.govUSA.govBenefits.govRegulations.gov
Title IX Resource Guide
Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.TITLE IX RESOURCE GUIDE  
 
U.S. Department of Educatio n 
Office for Civil Rights  
April 2015   
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.U.S. Department of Education  
Office for Civil Rights  
Catherine E. Lhamon  
Assistant Secretary  
April 2015  
This resource guide is in the public domain.   Authorization to reproduce it in whole or in part is 
granted.  The guide’s citation should be:  
U.S. De partment of Education, Office for Civil Rights, Title IX Resource Guide (Apr.  2015).  
This guide is also available on the Office for Civil Rights’ website at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr .  Any 
updates to thi
s guide will be ava ilable at this website.  
If you need technical assistance, please contact the OCR regional office serving your State or 
territory by:  
• visiting http://wdcrobcolp01.ed.gov/CFAPPS/OCR/contactu s.cfm , or  
• calling OCR’s C
ustomer Service Team at 1 800 -421-3481; TDD 1- 800- 877- 8339; or  
• emailing OCR at ocr@ed.gov .  
 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.
  
Notice of Language Assistance  
Title IX Resource Guide   
 
Notice of Language Assistance:   If you have difficulty understanding English, you may, free of charge, 
request language assistance services for this Department information by calling 1 -800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-
872-5327) (TTY: 1-800-877-8339), or email us at: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov .  
 
Aviso a personas con dominio limitado del idioma inglés:  Si usted tiene alguna dificultad en entender el 
idioma inglés, puede, sin costo alguno, solicitar asistencia lingüística con respecto a esta información 
llamando al 1-800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-872- 5327) (TTY: 1-800-877-8339), o envíe un mensaje de correo 
electrónico a: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov .   
 
給英語能力有限人士的通知 :  如果您不懂英語， 
或者使用英语有困难，您可以要求獲得向大眾提供的語言協助服務，幫助您理 解教育部資訊。這些語
言協助服務均可免費提供。如果您需要有關口譯或筆譯服務的詳細資訊，請致電 1-800- USA -LEARN 
(1-800-872-5327)  (聽語障人士專線：1-800-877-8339), 或電郵 : Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov 。 
 
Thông báo dành cho những người có khả năng Anh ng ữ hạn chế :  Nếu quý v ị gặp khó khăn trong việ c 
hiểu Anh ng ữ thì quý v ị có thể  yêu c ầu các d ịch vụ hỗ tr ợ ngôn ng ữ cho các tin tức của B ộ dành cho công 
chúng. Các dị ch vụ hỗ tr ợ ngôn ng ữ này đề u miễn phí. N ếu quý v ị muốn bi ết thêm chi ti ết về các d ịch vụ 
phiên dị ch hay thông dị ch, xin vui lòng g ọi số 1-800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-872-5327) (TTY: 1-800-877-
8339), hoặ c email: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov .  
 
영어  미숙자를  위한  공고 :  영어를 이해하는  데 어려움이  있으신  경우 , 교육부 정보 센터에  일반인  대상 
언어 지원 서비스를  요청하실  수 있습니다 . 이러한 언어 지원  서비스는 무료로  제공됩니다. 통역이나 
번역 서비스에 대해  자세한  정보가 필요하신 경우 , 전화번호 1-800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-872-5327) 
또는 청각 장애인용 전화번호  1-800-877-8339 또는  이메일주소 Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov  으로 
연락하시기 바랍니다.  
 
Paunawa sa mga Taong Limitado ang Kaalaman sa English:   Kung nahihirapan kayong makaintindi ng 
English, maaari kayong humingi ng tulong ukol dito sa inpormasyon ng Kagawaran mula sa nagbibigay ng 
serbisyo na pagtulong kaugnay ng wika.  Ang serbisyo na pagtulong kaugnay ng wika ay libre. Kung 
kailangan ninyo ng dagdag na impormasyon tungkol sa mga serbisyo kaugnay ng pagpapaliwanag o 
pagsasalin, mangyari lamang tumawag sa 1 -800- USA -LEARN (1 -800-872-5327) (TTY: 1-800-877-8339), o 
mag-email sa: Ed.Language.Assistance@ed.gov .  
 Уведомление для лиц с ограниченным знанием английского языка:   Если вы испытываете 
трудности в понимании английского языка, вы можете попросить, чтобы вам предоставили перевод информаци и, которую Министерство Образования доводит до всеобщего сведения. Этот перевод 
предоставляется бесплатно. Если вы хотите получить более подробную информацию об услугах устного и письменного перевода, звоните по телефону 1 -800- USA -LEARN  (1-800-872- 5327) (с лужба 
для слабослышащих: 1 -800-877- 8339), или отправьте сообщение по адресу: 
Ed.Language .Assistance@ ed.gov.
 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.TABLE OF CONTENTS  
A. Scope of Title  IX .................................................................................................................... 1  
B. Responsibilities and Authority of a Title IX Coordinator  ........................................................ 2  
C. Title IX’s Administrative Requirements  ................................................................................. 4  
1. Grievance Procedures  ................................................................................................................ 4  
2. Notice of Nondiscrimination and Contact Information for the Title IX Coordinator  ................ 6  
D. Application of Title IX to Various Issues  ................................................................................ 8  
1. Recruitment, Admissions, and Counseling  ................................................................................ 8  
2. Financial Assistance  ................................................................................................................. 10 
3. Athletics  ................................................................................................................................... 11 
(a) Student Interests and Abilities  ......................................................................................... 11 
(b) Athletic Benefits and Opportunities  ................................................................................. 13 
(c) Athletic Financial Assistance  ............................................................................................ 14 
4. Sex-Based Harassment  ............................................................................................................. 15 
5. Pregnant and Parenting Students  ............................................................................................ 18 
6. Discipline  .................................................................................................................................. 19 
7. Single -Sex Ed ucation  ................................................................................................................ 20 
(a) Schools  .............................................................................................................................. 20 
(b) Classes and Extracurricular Activities  ............................................................................... 21 
8. Employment  ............................................................................................................................. 23 
9. Retaliation  ................................................................................................................................ 24 
E. Information Collection and Reporting  ................................................................................. 25 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 1—Title IX Resource Guide  
A. Scope of Title IX  
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX) prohibits  discrimination based on sex in 
education programs  and activities  in federally  funded  schools at all levels .1  If any part of a school 
district or college receives any Federal funds for any purpose, all of the operations of the district or 
college are covered by Title IX.2 
Title IX protects students, employees, applicants for admission and employment , and other persons 
from all forms of sex discrimination, including discrimination based on gender identity  or failure to 
conform to stereotypical notions of masculinity or femininity.  All students (as well as other 
persons) at recipient institutions are protected by Title IX —regardless of their sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity,  part- or full- time status, disability, race, or national origin —in all 
aspects of a recipient’s educational  programs and activities . 
As part of their obligations under Title IX, a ll recipients of F ederal financial assistance must 
designate at least one em ployee to coordinate their efforts to compl y with and carry out their 
responsibilities under Title IX and must notify all students and employees of that employee’s  
contact information.3  This employee is generally referred to as the Title IX coordinator.   
The essence of Title IX is that an institution may not exclude, separate, deny benefits to, or 
otherwise treat differently any person on the basis of sex unless expressly authorized to do so 
under Title IX or the Department’s implementing regulations .4  When a recipient is considering 
relying on one of the  exception s to this general rule (several of which are discussed below), Title IX 
coordinators should be involved at every stage and work with school officials and legal counsel to 
help determine whether the exception is applicable and, if so, properly executed.  
1 20 U.S.C. §§ 1681 –1688.  The Department of Justice shares enforcement authority over Title IX with OCR.   The 
Department  of Education ’s Title IX regulations, 34 C.F.R. Part 106,  are available at 
http://www.ed.gov/policy/rights/reg/ocr/edlite -34cfr106.html .  Although Title IX and the Department’s implementing 
regulations apply  to any recipient institution that off ers education programs or activities, this resource guide  focuses 
on Title IX coordinators designated by local educational agencies, schools, colleges, and universities.  
2 An educational institution that is controlled by a religious organization is exempt from Title  IX to the extent that 
compliance would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.  20 U.S.C. §  1681(a)(3); 34 C.F.R. 
§ 106.12(a).  For application of this provision to a specific institution, please contact the appropriate  OCR regional 
office.  
3 34 C.F.R. §  106.8(a).  
4 20 U.S.C. §  1681(a); 34 C.F.R. §  106.31.  
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 2—Title IX Resource Guide  
B. Responsibilities and Authority of a Title IX Coordinator  
Although the recipient is ultimately responsible for ensuring that it complies with Title IX and other 
laws, the Title IX coordinator is  an integral part of a recipient ’s system atic approach to ensur ing 
nondiscrimination, including a nondiscriminatory environment.  Title IX coordinators can be 
effective agents for ensuring gender equity within their institutions only when they are provided 
with the appropriate authority and support necessary to coordinate the ir institution’s  Title IX 
compliance , including access to all of the ir institution ’s relevant information and resources.  
One of the most important facets of the Title IX coordinator’s re sponsibility is helping to ensure the 
recipient’s compliance with Title IX ’s administrative requirements .  The Title IX coordinator must 
have knowledge of the recipient’s policies and procedures on sex discrimination and should be 
involved in the drafting and revision of such policies and procedures to help to ensure that they 
comply with the requirements of Title IX.  
The coordinator may help the recipient by coordinat ing the implementation and administration of 
the recipient’s  procedures for resolving Titl e IX complaints , including educating the school 
community on how to file a complaint alleging a violation  of Title IX, investigating complaints, 
working with law enforcement when necessary, and ensuring that complaints are resolved promptly and appropriate ly.  The coordinator should also coordinate the recipient’s response to all 
complaints involving possible sex discrimination to monitor outcomes, identify patterns, and assess 
effects on the campus climate.  Such coordination can help an institution avoid Title IX violations, 
particularly violations involving sexual harassment  and violence , by preventing incidents from 
recurring or becoming systemic problems.   Title IX does not specify who should determine the 
outcome of Title IX complaints or the actions the school will take in response to such complaints.  
The Title IX coordinator could play this role, provided there are no conflicts of interest, but does 
not have to.    
The Title IX coordinator should also assist the institution in developing a method to survey the 
school climate and coordinate the collection and analysis of information from that survey.  Further, 
the coordinator should monitor students’ participation in athletics and across academic fields to 
identify programs with disproportionate enrollment based on sex and  ensure that sex 
discrimination is not causing any disproportionality  or otherwise negatively affecting a student’s 
access to equal educational opportunities.  
The Title IX coordinator should provide  training and technical assistance on school policies related 
to sex discrimination  and develop programs , such as assemblies  or college trainings , on issues 
related to Title IX to assist the recipient in making sure that all members  of the school community , 
including students and staff, are aware of their rights and obligations under Title IX.  To perform 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 3—Title IX Resource Guide  
this responsibility effectively, the coordinator should regularly assess the adequacy of current 
training opportunities and programs and propose improvements as appropriate.    
A recipient can designate more than one Title IX coordinator, which may be particularly helpful in 
larger school districts , colleges , and universities.  It may also be helpful to designate specific 
employees to coordinate certain Title IX compliance issues ( e.g., gender  equity in academic 
programs  or athletics , harassment, or complaints from employees ).  If a recipient has multiple Title 
IX coordinators, then it should designate one  lead Title IX coordinator who has ultimate oversight 
responsibility . 
Because Title IX prohibits discrimination in all aspects of a recipient’s education programs and 
activities, the Title IX coordinator should work closely with many different members of the school 
community, such as administrators, counselors, athletic directors, non -professio nal counselors or 
advocates , and legal  counsel.   Although these employees may not be formally designated as Title IX 
coordinators, the Title IX coordinator may need to work with them because their job 
responsibilities relate to the recipient’s obligations under Title IX.  The recipient should ensure that 
all employees whose work relates to Title IX communicate with one another and that these 
employees  have the support they need to ensure consistent practices and enforcement of the 
recipient’s policies and compliance with Title IX.   The coordinator should also be available to meet 
with the school community, including other employees , students , and parents or guardians, as 
needed  to discuss any issues related to Title IX . 
For more information about the role of  the Title IX coordinator, please review:  
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.8(a);  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Coordinators (April 24 , 2015), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letter s/colleague -201504 -title-ix-coordinators.pdf ; and 
• Letter to Title IX Coordinators (April 2 4, 2015), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/dcl -title-ix-coordinators -letter-201504.pdf . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 4—Title IX Resource Guide  
C. Title IX’s Administrative Requirements  
The administrative requirements in the Department’s Title IX regulations are the underpinning of 
both the Title IX coordinator’s job and a recipient’s compliance with Title IX; their purpose is to  
ensure that a recipient maintains an environment for students and employees that is free from 
unlawful sex discrimination in all aspects of the educational experience, including academics, 
extracurricular activities, and athletics.  These requirements provide that a recipient must  establish 
a system for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints .  This allows an institution to 
resolve complaints of discrimination  without the need for involvement by outside entities, such as 
the Federal government.  They also provide that a recipient must ensure that members of the 
school community are aware of their rights under Title IX, have  the contact information for the Title 
IX coordinator, and know how to file a complaint alleging a violation  of Title IX . 
1. Grie vance Procedures  
The Department’s Title IX regulations require a recipient to adopt and publish grievance procedures 
providing for the prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints under Title IX.  These procedures provide an instituti on with a mechanism for discovering incidents of 
discrimination or harassment as early as possible and for effectively correcting individual and 
systemic problems.   The procedures that each school uses to resolve Title IX complaints may vary  
depending on the nature of the allegation, the age of the student or students involved, the size and administrative structure of the school, state or local legal requirements, and what it ha s learned 
from past experiences .    
There are several ways in which a Title IX c oordinator can coordinate the recipient’s compliance 
with the Title IX regulatory requirement  regarding grievance procedures.  
• First, the Title IX coordinator should work with the recipient to help make sure that the 
grievance procedures are written in lang uage appropriate for the age of the audience (such 
as elementary, middle school, high school, or postsecondary students), and that they are 
easily underst ood and widely disseminated.  
• Second, the Title IX coordinator should review  the grievance procedures to help determine 
whether they incorporate all of the elements required for the prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints under Title IX, consistent with the Title IX 
regulatory requirement and OCR guidance.  
• Third, the Title IX coordinator should communicate with  students, parents or guardians, and 
school employees to help them understand the recipient’s grievance procedures; train 
employees and students about how Title IX protects against sex discrimination; and provide 
consultation and information regarding Title IX requirements to potential complainants.  
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 5—Title IX Resource Guide  
• Fourth, the Title IX coordinator is responsible for coordinating the grievance process  and 
making certain that individual complaints are handled properly .  This coordination 
respon sibility may  include  informing all parties regarding the process, notifying all parties 
regarding grievance decisions and of the right to and procedures for appeal, if any; 
monitoring compliance with all of the requirements and timelines specified in the g rievance 
procedures ; and maintaining grievance and compliance records and files . 
• Finally, the Title IX coordinator should work with the recipient to help ensure that its 
grievance procedures are accessible to English language learners5 and students with 
disabilities.6   
For more information about grievance procedures, please review:  
• 34 C.F.R. §  106.8(b);  
• Questions and Answers on Title IX and Sexual Violence (April 29, 2014), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/qa -201404 -title-ix.pdf ; 
• Dear Colleague Letter: Sexual Violence (April 4, 2011), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201104.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Grievance Procedures, Postsecondary Education (August 4, 2004), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/responsibilities_ix_ps.html;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Grievance Procedures, Elementary and Secondary Education 
(April 26, 2004), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/responsibilities_ix.html; and 
• Revised Sexual Harassment Guidance (January 19, 2001), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/shguide.pdf. 
5 Public schools and State educational agencies must take affirmative steps to ensure that students with limited English 
proficiency can meaningfully participate in their educational programs and services under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000d to d -7, and the Equal Educational Opportunities Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1703(f)  (1974). 
6 See 28 C.F.R. § 35.130(a) and (b); 34 C.F.R. § 104.4.  
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 6—Title IX Resource Guide  
2. Notice of Nondiscrimination  and Contact Information for the Title IX Coordinator  
The Department’s Title IX regulations require a  recipient to publish a statem ent that it does not 
discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities it operates  and that it is 
required by T itle IX not to discriminate in such a manner.  The notice must also state that questions 
regarding Title IX may be referred to the recipient’s Title IX coordinator or to OCR.   
The notice must be widely distributed to all applicants for admission and employment, students 
and parents or guardians of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of 
referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient.  The notice should be 
prominently posted on the recipient’s website, at various locations on campus, and in electronic 
and printed publications for general distribution.  In addition, the notice must be included in any 
bulletins, announcements, publications, catalogs, application forms, or recruitment materials.   
A recipient must notify all student s and employees  of the name  or title , office address, telephone 
number, and email address of the Title IX coordinator, including in its notice of nondiscrimination.  The notice should also state any other job title that the Title IX coordinator might have.   Recipients 
must notify students and employees of the Title IX coordinator’s contact information in its notice of 
nondiscrimination .  Recipients with more than one Title IX coordinator must notify the s chool 
community  of the lead Title IX coordinator’s contact information in its notice of nondiscrimination, 
and should also make available the contact information for its other Title IX coordinators as well t o 
ensure consistent practices and standards in handling complaints .  In doing so, recipients should 
include any additional information that would help students and employees identify which Title IX 
coordinator to contact, such as each Title IX coordinator’s specific geographic region ( e.g., a 
particular elementary school or part of a college campus) or are a of specialization within Title IX 
(e.g., gender equity in academic programs  or athletics , harassment, or complaints from 
employees ).  Because social media are now widespread means for students and other members of 
the school community to communicate, a r ecipient should also make the Title IX coordinator’s 
contact information available on social media to the extent that they are supported or used by the 
recipient . 
The content of the notice must be complete and include current information .  The Title IX 
coordinator should work with the recipient to make sure the text of the notice complies with all 
applicable requirements , that the notice is published and properly displayed, and the content  of 
the notice remains accurate .  One potentially low -cost way to hel p ensure that a recipient’s notice 
is properly disseminated and current on the recipient’s website is to create a page on the website 
that includes the name and contact information of the recipient’s Title IX coordinator(s), relevant 
Title IX policies and grievance procedures, and other resources related to Title IX compliance and  
gender equity.   A link to this page should be prominently displayed on the recipient’s homepage.  
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 7—Title IX Resource Guide  
For more information on notices of nondiscrimination, please review:  
• 34 C.F.R. §§  106.8(a), 106.9;  
• Notice of Nondiscrimination (August 2010), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/nondisc.pdf;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Grievance Procedures, Postsecondary Education (August  4, 
2004), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/responsibilities_ix_ps.html; and  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Grievance Procedures, Elementary and Secondary Education 
(April 26, 2004), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/responsibilities_ix.html. 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 8—Title IX Resource Guide  
D. Application of Title IX to Various Issues  
Below is a summary of some of the key issues covered by Title IX, as well as some general  
information on the legal requirements applicable to each issue area, including citations to the 
relevant Departmental regulatory provisions and references to OCR’s guidance  that address the 
issue .  The discussion of each Title IX issue incl udes recommende d best practices  to help a recipient 
meet its obligations under Title IX.  
1. Recruitment, Admissions, and Counseling  
Title IX prohibits  recipient institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate 
higher education, and public colleges and universities from discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or admission of students.
7  The Title IX coordinator at these recipient institutions 
should help the recipient to ensure that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in recruitmen t 
and admissions by reviewing the recipient’s recruitment materials, admission forms, and policies 
and practices in these areas . 
The Department’s Title IX regulations also prohibit all recipients from discriminating on the basis of 
sex in counseling or guiding students or applicants for admission.  The Title IX coordinator should 
review any materials used for counseling students in terms of class or career selection, or for 
counseling applicants for admission, to ensure that the recipient does not use diffe rent materials 
for students based on sex or use materials that permit or require different treatment of students 
based on sex.  
At all types of recipient institutions covered by Title IX, the Title IX coordinator should also work 
with school officials  to help remind the school community that all students must have equal access 
to all programs.  Many fields of study continue to be affected by sex-based disparities in 
enrollment ; these are typically called nontraditional fields.  For example, some fields of st udy in 
science, technology, engineering , and mathematics or career and technical education are often 
affected by  disproportionate enrollment of students based on sex , which triggers a duty of inquiry 
on the part of the recipient.  Title IX coordinators can  help ensure that such disparities are not the 
result of discrimination on the basis of sex by reviewing enrollment data and working  with other 
employees of the recipient to review counseling practices and counseling or appraisal materials .  
Under certain circumstances, recipients might encourage students to explore nontraditional fields  
to address underrepresentation of students of that sex  in those fields . 
7 20 U.S.C. §1681(a)(1).  The Department’s Title IX regulations regarding admissions do not apply to private institutions 
of undergraduate higher education or to any public institution of undergraduate higher education which traditionally 
and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting only students of one sex.  34 C.F.R. § 106.15.  
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 9—Title IX Resource Guide  
For more information about sex discrimination in recruiting, admissions , and counseling, please 
review:  
• 34 C.F.R. § § 106.3(b) , 106.15, 106.36, and 34 C.F.R. Part 106, Subpart C ; and  
• Title IX and Access to Courses and Programs in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math 
(October 2012), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/presentations/stem -t9-
powerpoint.pdf. 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 10—Title IX Resource Guide  
2. Financial Assistance   
Generally, a recipient may not: (a) provide different amounts or types of financial assistance, limit 
eligibility  for such assistance , apply different criteria or otherwise discriminate  on the basis of sex  in 
administering such assistance ; or (b) assist any agency, organization , or person which offers sex -
restricted student aid. 
The Department’s Title IX regulations provide three exceptions to these general prohibitions.  
Recipients are permitted to administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, 
or other awards that are restricted to members of one sex if the award is: (a) created by certain 
legal instruments, including wills or tr usts, or by acts of a foreign government, provided the overall 
effect is nondiscriminatory ; (b) for study at foreign institutions if  the recipient provides, or 
otherwise makes available reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other 
sex; or (c) athletic financial assistance.  The Department’s Title IX regulatory requirements 
regarding athletic financial assistance are discussed in the Athletics section, below.  
To help the recipient ensure its compliance with these requirements, the Ti tle IX coordinator 
should help the recipient develop, and subsequently monitor, the procedures and practices for 
awarding financial assistance and for administering or aiding any foundation, trust, agency, organization, person, or foreign government in awarding financial assistance to its students.  
For more information about sex discrimination in financial assistance , please review :  
• 34 C.F.R. § § 106.31(c) and 106.37.  
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 11—Title IX Resource Guide  
3. Athletics  
The Department’s Title IX regulations prohibit sex discrimination in interscholastic, intercollegiate, 
club, or intramural athletic s offered by a  recipient institution, including with respect to (a) student 
interests and abilities ; (b) athletic benefits and opportunities ; and (c) athletic financial assistance . 
(a) Student Interests and A bilities  
Under the Department’s Title IX regulations, an institution must provide equal athletic 
opportunities for members of both sexes and effectively accommodate students’ athletic interests 
and abilities .  OCR uses a three -part test to determine whether an institution is providing 
nondiscriminatory athletic participation opportunities in compliance with the Title IX regulation. 
The test provides the following three compliance options:  
1. Whether participation opportunities for male and female students are provided in numbers substantially proportionate to their respective enrollments; or  
2. Where the members of one sex have been and are underrepresented among athletes, 
whether the institution can show a history and continuing practice of program expansion which is demonstrably responsive to the developing interests and abilities of the members 
of that sex; or  
3. Where the members of one sex are underrepresented among athletes, and the institution 
cannot show a history and continuing practice of program expansion, as described above, 
whether it can be demonstrated that the interests and abilities of the members of that sex 
have been fully and effectively accommodated by the present program.  
The three -part test is intended to allow institutions to maintain flexibil ity and control over their 
athletic programs consistent with Title IX’s nondiscrimination requirements.  The three -part test 
furnishes an institution with three individual avenues to choose from when determining how it will 
provide individuals of each sex with nondiscriminatory opportunities to participate in athletics.  If 
an institution has met any part of the three -part test, OCR will determine that the institution is 
meeting this requirement.  
To coordinate the institution’s compliance with this require ment, the Title IX coordinator should 
compare its enrollment data to the number of athletic participation opportunities it offers ; review 
the institution’s history of expanding participation opportunities for students of the underrepresented sex ; and evalu ate whether there is unmet interest in a particular sport, whether 
there is sufficient ability to sustain a team in the sport, and whether there is a reasonable 
expectation of competition for the team . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 12—Title IX Resource Guide  
For more information about the obligation to provide equal athletic opportunities and to 
effectively accommodate students’ athletic interests and abilities, please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.41(c)(1) ; 
• Dear Colleague Letter: Part Three of the Three -Part Test (April 20, 2010), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -20100420.html ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Athletic Activities Counted for Title IX Purposes (September 17, 2008), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -20080917.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Title IX Athletics Three -Part Test (March 27, 2008), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr /letters/title -ix-2008- 0327.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Further Clarification of Intercollegiate Athletics Policy Guidance (July 
11, 2003), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/title9guidanceFinal.html;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Clarification of Intercollegiate Athletics Policy Guidance: The Three -
Part Test (January 16, 1996), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/clarific.html ; and  
• Title IX Policy Interpretation: Intercollegiate Athletics (December 11, 1979), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/t9interp.html . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 13—Title IX Resource Guide  
(b) Athletic Benefits and Opportunities  
The Department’s Title IX regulations and OCR guidance  require  that recipients that operate or 
sponsor interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics provide equal athletic 
opportuni ties for members of both sexes.   In determining whether an institution is providing equal 
opportunity in athletics , the regulations require the Department to consider, among others, the 
following factors : (1) the provision of equipment and supplies; (2) scheduling of games and practice 
time; (3) travel and per diem allowances; (4) opportunity for coaching and academic tutoring; (5) 
assignment and compensation of coaches and tutors; (6) provision of locker rooms, and practice 
and competitive facilities; (7) provision of medical and training facilities and services; (8) housing and dining services; (9) publicity; (10) recruitment; and (11) support services .  These factors are 
sometimes referred to as the laundry list . 
As part of the recipient ’s obligation to provide equal athletic opportunity to its students, OCR 
encourages Title IX coordinators to w ork with the recipient to periodically review and compare the 
distribution of athletic benefits and opportunities by sex in each of these areas, including financial 
expenditures on male and female athletic teams.  
For more information about each of these areas, please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.41(c)(2) –(10); and 
• Title IX Policy Interpretation: Intercollegiate Athletics (December 11, 1979), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/t9interp.html . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 14—Title IX Resource Guide  
(c) Athletic Financial Assistance  
The Department’s Title IX regulations specif y that if a  recipient awards athletic financial assistance, 
including athletic scholarships  or grants -in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such 
awards for members of each sex in substantial proportion to the number of students of each sex 
participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.  Separate athletic financial assistance for 
members of each sex may be provided as part of separate athletic teams for members of  each sex.  
The Title IX coordinator should help coordinate the recipient ’s efforts to ensure  that the athletic 
financial assistance awarded by the recipient complies  with these provisions  by working with the 
institution and its athletics department. 
For more information about a recipient ’s obligations regarding awards of athletic financial 
assistance , please review : 
• 34 C.F.R.  § 106.37(c);  
• Title IX Policy Interpretation: Intercollegiate Athletics (December 11, 1979), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/t9interp.html ; and  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Bowling Green State University (July 23, 1998), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/bowlgrn.html . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 15—Title IX Resource Guide  
4. Sex-Based Harassment  
In order to best perform academically and  to have equal access to all aspects of a recipient’s 
educational programs and activities, students must not be subjected to unlawful harassment, 
either in the classroom or while participatin g in other education programs or activities.8 
Title IX prohibits sex -based  harassment by peers, employees, or third parties that is sufficiently 
serious to deny  or limit a student’s ability to participate in or benefit from the recipient’s education 
programs and activities  (i.e., creates a hostile environment ).  When a recipient  knows or reasonably 
should know of possible sex-based harassment, it must take immediate and appropriate steps to 
investigate or otherwise determine what occurred.  If an investigation reveals that the harassment 
created a hostile environment, the recipient must take prompt and effective steps reasonably 
calculated to end the harassment, eliminate the hostile environment, prevent the harassment from 
recurring, and, as appropriate, remedy  its effects.  
Title IX  prohibits several types of sex-based harassment.  Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct 
of a sexual nature, such as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other 
verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sex ual nature.  Sexual violence is a form of sexual 
harassment and refers to physical sexual acts perpetrated against a person’s will or where a person 
is incapable of giving consent ( e.g., due to the student’s age or use of drugs or alcohol, or because 
an in tellectual or other disability prevents the student from having the capacity to give consent).  A 
number of different acts fall into the category of sexual violence, including rape, sexual assault, 
sexual battery, sexual abuse, and sexual coercion.   Gender -based harassment is another  form of 
sex-based harassment and refers to unwelcome  conduct based on an individual’s actual or 
perceived sex, including harassment based on gender identity  or nonconformity with  sex 
stereotypes , and not necessarily involving c onduct of a sexual nature .  All of these types of sex -
based harassment  are forms  of sex discrimination prohibited by Title IX.  
Harassing conduct may take many forms, including verbal acts and name -calling, as well as non -
verbal behavior, such as graphic an d written statements, or conduct that is physically threatening, 
harmful, or humiliating.  The more severe the conduct, the less need there is to show a repetitive 
series of incidents to prove a hostile environment, particularly if the conduct is physical.   Indeed, a 
single or isolated incident of sexual violence may create a hostile environment.  
Title IX protects all students from sex -based harassment, regardless of the sex of the alleged 
perpetrator or complainant, including when they are members of the s ame sex.  Title IX ’s sex 
discrimination  prohibition extends to claims  of discrimination based on gender identity or failure to 
8 A Title IX coordinator may receive reports of sex -based harassment of any member of the school community.  It is the 
Title IX coordinator’s responsibility to help make su re that such compla ints are processed appropriately.  
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 16—Title IX Resource Guide  
conform to stereotypical notions of masculinity or femininity , and a recipient must accept and 
appropriately respond to all complaints of sex discrimination.  Similarly, the actual or perceived 
sexual orientation or gender identity of the parties does not change a recipient ’s obligations.  A 
recipient should investigate and resolve allegations of sexual or gender -based harassment of  
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender students using the same procedures and standards that it 
uses in all complaints involving sex -based harassment .  The fact that an incident of sex-based 
harassment  may be accompanied by anti- gay comments or be partly  based on a student’s actual or 
perceived sexual orientation does not relieve a recipient of its obligation under Title IX to 
investigate and remedy such an incident. 
The Title IX coordinator must coordinate the recipient’s efforts to accept and appropriat ely 
respond to all complaints of sex discrimination  and should work with the recipient to prevent 
sexual and gender- based harassment.      
• First, the Title IX coordinator should assist in any training the recipient provides t o the 
school community, including all employees, as to what conduct constitutes sexual and 
gender -based harassment  and how to respond appropriately  when  it occurs . 
• Second, the Title IX coordinator should help the recipient develop a method  appropriate to 
their institution to survey the c ampus climate , evaluate whether any discriminatory 
attitudes pervade the school culture, and determine whether any harassment or other 
problematic behaviors are occurring, where they happen, which students are responsible, 
which students are targeted, and how those conditions may be best remedied.  
• Third, because the Title IX coordinator must have knowledge of all Title IX reports and 
complaints at the recipient institution, the Title IX coordinator is generally in the best 
position to  evaluate confidentiality requests from complainants in the context of providing  
a safe , nondiscriminatory environment for all students.  
• Fourth, the Title IX coordinator should coordinate  recordkeeping (for instance, in a 
confidential log maintained by the Title IX coordinator),  monitor incidents to help identify 
students or employees who have multiple complaints filed against them  or who have been 
repeated targets , and address any patterns or systemic problems that arise, including 
making school officials aware of these patterns  or systemic problems as appropriate . 
• Fifth , the Title IX coordinator should  recommend, as necessary, that the recipient increase  
safety measures, such as monitoring , supervision, or security at locations or activities where 
harassment has occurred.  
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 17—Title IX Resource Guide  
• Finally, the Title IX coordinator should regularly review the effectiveness of the recipient’s 
efforts to ensure that the recipient institution is free from sexual and gender- based 
harassment, and use that information to recommend future proactive steps that the  
recipient can take  to comply with Title IX and protect the school community . 
For more information about a recipient’s obligation to address sexual and gender- based 
harassment, please review : 
• Questions and Answers on Title IX and Sexual Violence (April 29 , 2014), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/qa -201404 -title-ix.pdf ; 
• Dear Colleague Letter: Sexual Violence (April 4, 2011), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201104.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Harassment and Bullying (October 26, 2010), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201010.pdf ;  
• Sexual Harassment: It's Not Academic (September 2008), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/ocrshpam.pdf;   
• Dear Colleague Letter: Sexual Harassment Issues (January 25, 2006), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/sexhar -2006.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague Letter: First Amendment (July 28, 2003), available at  
http://www.ed.gov /ocr/firstamend.html ;  
• Revised Sexual Harassment Guidance (January 19, 2001), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/shguide.pdf ; and 
• Not Alone: Together Against Sexual Assault, available at  http://www.notalone.gov . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 18—Title IX Resource Guide  
5. Pregnant and Parenting Students  
Under the Department’s Title IX  regulations , recipient s are prohibited from: (a) applying any rule 
concerning parental, family, or marital status that treats persons differently on the basis of sex;  or 
(b) discriminating against or excluding any student from its education program or activity, including 
any class or extracurricular activity  on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, 
termination of pregnancy , or recovery therefrom .  Institutions of vocational education, professional 
education, graduate higher education , and public colleges and universities are prohibited from  
making pre -admission inquiries as to the marital status of an applicant for admissio n. 
The Title IX coordinator should work with the recipient on its obligation not to  discriminat e against 
students based on their parental, family, or marital status, or  exclud e pregnant or parenting 
students from participating in any educational program, including extracurricular activities.   The 
Title IX coordinator is responsible for coordinating the recipient’s response to  complaints of 
discrimination against pregnant and parenting students .  In addition, the Title IX coordinator should 
provide training to students so they know that Title IX prohibits discrimination against pregnant and parenting students, provide workshops to administrators, teachers, and other staff on the  
Department’s  Title IX regulations and OCR guidance related to pregnant and parenting students, 
and assist  the recipient in helping to meet the unique educational, child care, and health care 
needs of pregnant and parenting students.  
For more information about a recipient’s obligations regarding pregnant and parenting students, 
please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. § § 106.21(c), 106. 31, 106.40; 
• Supporting the Academic Success of Pregnant and Parenting Students (June 2013), available at http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/pregnancy.pdf ;  
• Dear Colleague L etter: Pregnant and Parenting Students (June 25, 2013), available at  
http://www2.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201306- title-ix.pdf; and  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Nondiscriminatory Tr eatment of Pregnant Student Athletes (June 25, 
2007), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -20070625.pdf . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 19—Title IX Resource Guide  
6. Discipline  
The Department’s Title IX regulations prohibit a recip ient from subjecting any person to separate or 
different rules  of behavior , sanctions, or other treatment, such as discriminatory discipline , based 
on sex.  
The Title IX coordinator should review the recipient’s discipline policies to help make sure they ar e 
not discriminatory.   In addition, the Title IX coordinator should work with other coordinators or 
school employees to help the recipient keep and maintain accurate and complete records 
regarding its disciplinary incidents and monitor the recipient’s administration of its discipline policies to ensure that they are not administered in a discriminatory manner.  For example, the 
Title IX coordinator should review the recipient’s disciplinary records and data to ensure that 
similarly situated students are not  being disciplined differently based on sex for the same offense 
and that the recipient’s discipline policies do not have a n unlawful  disparate impact on students  
based on sex .  The Title IX coordinator should also help the recipient to ensure that students are 
not disciplined based on their gender identity or for failing to conform to stereotypical notions of masculinity or femininity in their behavior or appearance.  
For more information about a recipient’s obligations regarding nondiscriminatory administr ation of 
discipline, please review :  
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.31(b)(4) ; and  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Nondiscriminatory Administration of Discipline (January 8, 2014), 
available at  http://www.e d.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201401- title-vi.pdf . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 20—Title IX Resource Guide  
7. Single -Sex Education  
A recipient is generally prohibited from providing any of its education programs or activities 
separately on the basis of sex, or requiring or refusing participation by students on the  basis of sex  
unless expressly authorized to do so under Title IX or the Department’s implementing regulations .  
There are some limited exceptions , the most significant of which are outlined  below . 
(a) Schools  
A recipient generally may offer a single -sex nonvo cational elementary or secondary school under 
Title IX only if it offers a substantially equal school to students of the other sex.9  The substantially 
equal  school may be either single -sex or coeducational.   The Department’s Title IX regulations 
include a  non-exhaustive list of factors that are relevant to determining whether a school is 
substantially equal to a single -sex school.  The factors include the admission  criteria and policies ; 
the educational benefits provided, including the quality, range, and content of curriculum and 
other services , and the quality and availability of books, instructional materials, and technology; 
the qualifications of faculty and staff; geographic accessibility; the quality and rang e of 
extracurricular offerings; the quality , accessibility, and availability of facilities and resources 
provided; and intangible features, such as reputation of faculty.  Although the schools do not need 
to be identical with respect to each factor, they need to be substantially equal.  This means that if 
one school is significantly superior with respect to one factor, or slightly superior with respect to 
many  factors, the schools are likely not substantially equal.  
If the recipient offers a single -sex school, then the district’s Title IX coordinato r should be involved 
in assessing the recipient’s compliance with Title IX by helping to ensure that the recipient offers a 
substantially equal single -sex school  or coeducational school . 
9 Title IX does not prohibit the operation of a single -sex nonvocational private elementary or secondary school or a 
single -sex nonvocational private institution of undergraduate higher education.   20 U. S.C. § 1681(a)(1); 34 C.F.R. 
§ 106.15(d).   Title IX permits the operation of a nonvocational public charter school that is a single -school local 
educational agency under State law without requiring the operation of a substantially equal school for the excl uded 
sex. 
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 21—Title IX Resource Guide  
(b) Classes and Extracurricular Activities  
The Department’s Title IX reg ulations do not prohibit recipients from grouping students in physical 
education classes and activities by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual 
performance developed and applied without regard to sex  or using  requirements based on vocal  
range or quality that may result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one sex.  
The Department’s Title IX regulations identify the following categories for which a recipient may 
intentionall y separate students by sex: (a) contact sports in physi cal education classes; (b) classes 
or portions of classes in elementary and secondary schools that deal primarily with human 
sexuality; and (c) n onvocational classes and extracurricular activities within a coeducational, 
nonvocational elementary or secondary scho ol if certain criteria are met.  
With respect to the third category , a recipient may offer a single -sex nonvocational class or 
extracurricular activity  in a coeducational , nonvocational  elementary or secondary school if the 
class is based on one of t wo important objectives: to improve its students’ educational 
achievement through its overall established policy to provide diverse educational opportunities or to meet the particular, identified educational needs of its students.  The single -sex nature of  each 
class must be substantially related to achievement of the important objective  and the recipient 
must implement its important objective in an evenhanded manner .  In addition, enrollment in  a 
single -sex class must be completely voluntary and the recipient must provide a substantially equal 
coeducational class in the same subject to all students, and may be required to provide a substantially equal single -sex class for students of the excluded sex.  The factors that are relevant 
to determining whether a single -sex class and a coeducational class are substantially equal are 
similar to those used to determine whether schools are substantially equal.  If a recipient provides  
a single -sex class under this regulatory exception, it is also required to conduct a periodic 
evaluation of the class and the original justification behind the class at least every two years.   The 
periodic evaluation must ensure that each single -sex class is based upon a genuine justification and 
does not rely on overly broad generalizations about the different talents, capacities, or preferences 
of either sex, and that each single -sex class or extracurricular activity is  substantially related to the 
achievement of the imp ortant objective for the class .  
If the recipient offers a single -sex class, then the Title IX coordinator should be involved in assessing 
the recipient’s compliance with Title IX, both when determining whether and how single -sex classes 
can be offered and during the recipient’s periodic review of single -sex offerings.  The Title IX 
coordinator’s role may include assisting with the preparation and review of the required periodic 
evaluations, tracking  and review ing complaints involving single -sex classes , confirming  that student 
enrollment  in any single -sex class is completely voluntary , and helping to ensure that the recipient 
offers a substantially equal coeducational class and, as appropriate, substantially equal single -sex 
class , for each single -sex class offered .  The Title IX coordinator should also help ensure that 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 22—Title IX Resource Guide  
transgender students are treated consistent with their gender identity in the context of single -sex 
classes.   
For more information about single -sex schools, classes, and extracurricular activities, please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.34; 
• Questions and Answers  Regarding Single -Sex Elementary and Secondary Classes and 
Extracurricular Activities ( December , 2014), available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/docs/faqs -
title-ix-single -sex-201412.pdf ; 
• Dear Colleague Letter: Single -Sex Education (January 31, 2007), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/single -sex-20070131.html ; and  
• Final Rule:  Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities 
Receiving Federal Financial Assistance, 71 Fed. Reg. 62,530 (October 25, 2006), available at  
http://www2.ed.gov/legislation/FedRegister/finrule/2006 -4/102506a.pdf . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 23—Title IX Resource Guide  
8. Employment  
Under the Department’s Title IX  regulations , a recipient is generally prohibited from discriminating 
on the basis of sex in any employment  or recruitment, consideration or selection for employment , 
whether full -time or part -time .10  This includes employment actions such as  recruitment, hiring, 
promotion, compensation, grants of leave, and benefits.  A recipient must make employment 
decisions in a nondiscriminatory manner, and may not enter into contracts, includin g those with 
employment agencies or unions, that have the direct or indirect effect of subjecting employees or 
students to discrimination based on sex.  Additionally, Title IX’s employment provisions protect against discrimination based on an applicant’s o r employee’s pregnan cy or  marital or parent al 
status.  Finally, a recipient may not  employ students in a way that discriminates against one sex, or 
provide services to any other organization that does so.  
The Title IX coordinator should help the recipient in making  sure school employees are aware  that 
the Title IX coordinator is available to help employees as well as students.  The Title IX coordinator should be familiar with the recipient’s employment policies and procedures, and train the 
appropriate huma n resource employees regarding the recipient’s obligations under Title IX.   
For more information about employment discrimination, please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. Part 106, Subpart E ; 34 C.F.R. § 106.38. 
10 Employees are also protected fr om discrimination on the basis of sex, including sexual harassment, by Title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e.  OCR does not enforce Title VII.  For information about Title VII, 
see the Equal Employment Opportunity Commiss ion's website at http://www.eeoc.gov .  
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 24—Title IX Resource Guide  
9. Retaliation  
A recipient cannot  retaliate against an individual , including a Title IX coordinator,  for the purpose of 
interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX.  Retaliation against an individual because 
the individual filed a complaint alleging a violation of Title IX; participated in a Title IX investigation, 
hearing, or proceeding ; or advocated for others’ Title IX rights  is also prohibited .  The recipient 
should ensure that individuals are not intimidated, threatened, coerced, or discriminated against for engaging in such activity .   
For more information about the prohibition against retaliation, please review : 
• 34 C.F.R. § 106.71 (incorporating by reference 34 C.F.R. § 100.7(e)) ; and  
• Dear Colleague Letter: Retaliation (April 2013), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/ocr/letters/colleague -201304.pdf . 
 Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 25—Title IX Resource Guide  
E. Information Collection and Reporting  
The Department requires recipients to report information  about Title IX and other civil rights issues  
that may be useful to the work of Title IX c oordinators.  In addition, Title IX coordinators can play a 
helpful role in helping to ensure  that their institutions’ information  is accurate, comprehensive , and 
effectively used to cure civil rights violations or prevent them from occurring.  
OCR administ ers the Civil Rights Data Collection (CRDC), which collects information on key 
education and civil rights issues from public local educational agencies (LEAs) and schools, including 
juvenile justice facilities, charter schools, alternative schools, and sch ools serving students with 
disabilities.  The information is  used by OCR in its enforcement efforts, by other Department offices 
and Federal agencies, and by the public, including policymakers and researchers.  
The CRDC collects information  on several key i ssue areas under Title IX that might help inform the 
Title IX coordinator’s work , including harassment or bullying ,11 discipline, and participation in 
various academic classes and programs, single -sex classes and activities, and interscholastic 
athletics.  In addition, the CRDC asks LEAs to report whether they have civil rights coordinators, including Title IX coordinators and to provide each coordinator’s contact information.   For Title IX 
coordinators at elementary and secondary schools, the CRDC  may be  a useful tool to monitor 
trends within their districts and schools to determine whether there are patterns or systemic problems under Title IX.  Additionally, the CRDC and other information  collections at the State and 
local levels can help  recipients and th eir Title IX coordinators identify patterns of disproportionality 
that may be rooted in sex discrimination.  For example, the CRDC’s information  about student 
enrollment in particular courses of study ( e.g., science, technology, engineering , and mathematic s 
courses) may help a Title IX coordinator determine whether a particular sex  is underrepresented  in 
such courses.  If so, the coordinator should investigate the possible causes of the disproportionality 
and then recommend measures for reaching greater pro portionality, as appropriate.  
11 The CRDC collects information  on allegations of harassment or bullying, students reported as harassed or bullied, and 
students disciplined for harassment or bullying, based on sex , race/color/national origin, and disability.  For allegations 
of harassment or bullying, data are also collected based on religion and sexual orientation.  As a best practice, OCR 
recommends that Title IX coordinators assist the recipient in training rele vant staff about how information on sex -
based harassment should be reported under the CRDC.  For example, relevant staff should be knowledgeable about the 
ways in which harassment based on sex and sexual orientation overlap, and informed that if an incident has multiple 
bases ( e.g., an incident in which a student was harassed both based on gender nonconformity (sex) and sexual 
orientation), the LEA should report all relevant bases under the CRDC.   In addition, the recipient should remind  staff 
who collect, maintain , and report information  to the Department of these requirements and of the district’s 
obligations, including keeping personally identifiable information private.   
                                                       Rescinded: This document has been formally rescinded by the Department and 
remains available on the web for historical purposes only.Page 26—Title IX Resource Guide  
The Department’s Office of Postsecondary Education also collects information  about Title IX 
coordinators from postsecondary institutions in reports required under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure 
of Campus Security Policy and Campu s Crime Statistics Act and the Higher Education Opportunity 
Act.12  Title IX coordinators in postsecondary settings should assist the institution’s officials in  
accurately report ing the required information.  
For more information about data collection and re porting, please review:  
• CRDC webpage, available at  http://www.ed.gov/ocr/data.html ; and  
• Campus Security webpage (for postsecondary institutions), available at  
http://www.ed.gov/admins/lead/safety/campus.html . 
12 20 U.S.C. § 1092(f).  The Department will begin collecting this information in 2015.  
                                                       Notice of Non-Discrimination Fact Sheet
Introduction
The Department of Education’s (ED) Office
for Civil Rights (OCR) enforces several 
statutes that protect the rights of beneficiaries in programs or activities that receive financial assistance from ED. These laws prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, and national origin (Title VI of the  Civil Rights 
Act of 1964 ), sex (Title IX of the Education 
Amendments of 1972 ), disability (Section 
504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ), and 
age (Age Discrimination Act of 1975 ). OCR 
also has enforcement responsibilities under Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act , 
which prohibits state and local governments from discriminating on the basis of disability. In addition, OCR enforces the Boy Scouts of 
America Equal Access Act , which addresses 
equal access to meet on school premises or in school facilities for the Boy Scouts of America and other designated youth groups.
This fact sheet explains the requirements 
for schools, colleges, and state and local governments that receive federal funds to issue notices of non-discrimination, clarifies the information that they should include in their non-discrimination notices, and provides a sample notice of non-discrimination. This fact sheet is designed to assist education institutions in establishing a notice of non-discrimination that meets the requirements of the applicable regulations.
Notice of Non-discrimination 
Requirements
The regulations implementing Title VI, Title 
IX, Section 504, the Age Discrimination Act , 
and the Boy Scouts Act contain requirements for recipients to issue notices of non-
discrimination. (See 34 C.F.R. Sections 100.6(d), 106.9, 104.8, 110.25, and 108.9, respectively.) The Title II regulation also contains a notice requirement that applies to all entities of state or local government, whether or not they receive federal financial assistance. (See 28 C.F.R. Section 35.106.) 
These regulations require that recipients 
notify students, parents and others that they do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, and age, and, if applicable, that they provide equal access to the Boy Scouts of America and other designated youth groups. However, these regulations contain minor differences relating to the required content of recipient notices of non-discrimination and the methods used to publish them.
The Title VI regulation requires schools 
and colleges to notify students and others of the regulatory provisions in a manner that a responsible ED official would find necessary to tell students of their protections against discrimination under the statute and regulation.
The Boy Scouts Act regulation incorporates 
the Title VI regulatory provision concerning notice of non-discrimination.  Public elementary and secondary schools and local and state educational agencies that receive funds made available through ED must make available information regarding the provisions of the Boy Scouts Act.  This information must be made available in a manner that a responsible ED official would find necessary to inform people of the protections provided under the Boy Scouts Act and its regulation.  Entities other than public elementary and secondary schools and local and state educational agencies that receive funds made available through ED need not provide this notice, as the Boy Scouts Act does not apply to them.
The Title IX and the Section 504 regulations 
both contain more detailed requirements that specify the information that must be included in a notice of non-discrimination. These regulations also require recipients to designate at least one employee to coordinate efforts to comply with and carry out responsibilities.
The Title IX regulation requires schools 
and colleges to implement specific and continuing steps to inform students and others of the protections against discrimination on the basis of sex. The notification must state that the requirement of non-discrimination in educational programs and activities extends to employment and admission. It also must say that questions about Title IX may be referred to the employee designated to coordinate Title IX compliance or to the assistant secretary for civil rights. Schools are required to include the name, address, and telephone number of the designated coordinator in their notifications.
The Section 504 regulation requires that 
schools and colleges employing 15 or more persons implement appropriate, continuing steps to notify students and others that the school does not discriminate on the basis of disability in violation of the statute and regulation. The notification must state, where appropriate, that the school or college does not discriminate in admission, treatment, or access to its programs or activities. The notification also must state that the school or college does not discriminate in employment in its programs or activities. The employee designated to coordinate compliance with the Section 504 regulation must be identified in the notification.
The Title II regulation requires that a public 
entity generally make information regarding 
the provisions of Title II available to applicants, participants and other interested persons in such a manner as the head of the entity finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination under the Americans with Disabilities Act. The regulation implementing the Age Discrimination Act requires a school or college to notify its students and applicants, in a continuing manner, of information regarding the provisions of the act and these regulations. The notice must identify the compliance coordinator by name or title, address, and telephone number.
Methods of Notification
In accordance with the Title IX and Section 
504 regulations, notification may include posting information notices, publishing in local newspapers, publishing in newspapers and magazines operated by the school or its students, publishing in alumnae or alumni newspapers or magazines, or distributing memoranda or other written communications to students and employees. In addition, recipients are required to include a statement of nondiscriminatory policy in any bulletins, announcements, publications, catalogs, application forms, or other recruitment materials that are made available to participants, students, applicants, or employees. As noted in the pertinent Section 504 regulatory provision, schools may meet this requirement either by including appropriate inserts in existing materials and publications ARCHIVED AND NOT FOR RELIANCE. This document has not been updated to reflect 2020 amendments to the Department’s 
regulations implementing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. 85 FR 30026 (May 19, 2020)U.S. Department of Education  
Office for Civil Rights 
Washington, DC 20202-1100Notice of 
NON-DISCRIMINATIONor by revising and reprinting the materials  
and publications.
Neither the Title VI regulation, the Boy 
Scouts Act regulation, the Age Discrimination 
Act regulation, nor the Title II regulation 
specifies the methods to be used by recipients 
in publishing notices of non-discrimination.
Combined Requirements
OCR recognizes the variations among the 
regulations governing notice requirements and understands that schools and colleges may wish to use one statement to comply with all requirements of the regulations implementing Title VI, Title IX, Section 504, the Age Discrimination Act, and, if applicable, 
the Boy Scouts Act . Public institutions also 
may wish to include Title II of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act  in their statement. 
OCR encourages one combined notice for            the regulations.
A combined non-discrimination notice should 
contain two basic elements: (1) a statement of non-discrimination that specifies the basis for non-discrimination; and (2) identification by name or title, address, and telephone number of the employee or employees responsible for coordinating the compliance efforts.
The regulations do not require that a recipient 
identify the pertinent regulations by title. Please see the sample notice at the end of               this pamphlet.
The Title IX regulation requires a recipient to 
provide the name of the person responsible for its compliance effort in addition to the address and telephone number where that person may be contacted. However, because OCR recognizes that the inclusion of a person’s name in a non-discrimination notice may result in an overly burdensome requirement to republish the notice if a person leaves the coordinator position, it is acceptable for a recipient to identify its coordinator only through a      position title.
The Section 504 regulation does not 
require a recipient to include the address or telephone number of the responsible employee assigned to coordinate its compliance efforts. However, OCR considers that identifying the responsible employee without information on how to contact that person does not constitute an effective notice. An acceptable non-discrimination notice should provide information on how to contact the        responsible employee.
Compliance with the notification 
requirements of Section 504 will also generally satisfy the notification requirements of Title II for state and local governments.
Although the Section 504 and Title IX 
regulations state that schools and colleges, where appropriate, shall specify non-discrimination in the areas of admission and employment, a general statement indicating non-discrimination in all programs     is acceptable.
The Title IX regulation indicates that 
inquiries concerning the application of the Title IX regulation may be referred to the coordinator or to the assistant secretary for civil rights. An acceptable notice may include the names and titles of either one or both individuals. 
However, since the Section 504 regulation 
requires  identification of a coordinator, a combined non-discrimination notice should include the name and/or title of the responsible employee. If a recipient designates two different people to coordinate compliance with Section 504 and Title IX, both names or titles should be included in the notice.
Sample Notice of Non-discrimination
The following sample notice of non-
discrimination meets the minimum requirements of the regulations enforced by OCR:
The (Name of Recipient) does not 
discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age in its programs and activities and provides equal access to the Boy Scouts and other designated youth groups.1 The following person has been 
designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies:
Name and/or Title 
Address  
Telephone No.
Name and/or Title2
Address  
Tel
ephone No.
For further information on notice of non-
discrimination, visit http://wdcrobcolp01.
ed.gov/CFAPPS/OCR/contactus.cfm for the address and phone number of the office that serves your area, or call 1-800-421-3481.
1 Only public elementary or secondary schools or local or state 
educational agencies that receive funds made available through 
the Department of Education should include the words “and provides equal access to the Boy Scouts and other designated youth groups.”
2 For use when more than one official has been designated to 
coordinate civil rights compliance.August 2010ARCHIVED AND NOT FOR RELIANCE. This document has not been updated to reflect 2020 amendments to the Department’s 
regulations implementing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.  85 FR 30026 (May 19, 2020)Boards and Commissions
Boards and Commissions Manual
List All Boards and Commissions
Bureau of Finance and Management
Bureau of Information and Telecommunications
Department of Ag and Natural Resources
Department of Game, Fish, and Parks
Department of Human Services
Department of Labor and Regulation
Department of Social Services
Department of Transportation
Department of Tribal Relations
Governor's Office of Economic Development
South Dakota Housing Authority
South Dakota Retirement System
Events Calendar - Click on highlighted date to view a list of events.
SunMonTueWedThuFriSat311234567891011121314151617181920212223242526272829303112345678910
© 2024 | Powered by BIT | State of South Dakota
sd.gov | sdlegislature.gov | email us
Codified Laws
Privacy Policy
Chrome
Google Chrome - The Fast & Secure Web Browser Built to be Yours
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
Chrome is built for performance. Optimize your experience with features like Energy Saver and Memory Saver.
Chrome has tools to help you manage the tabs you’re not quite ready to close. Group, label, and color code your tabs to stay organized and work faster.
Chrome is built to work with your device across platforms. That means a smooth experience on whatever you’re working with.
There’s a new Chrome update every four weeks, making it easy to have the newest features and a faster, safer browser.
Chrome is built for performance. Optimize your experience with features like Energy Saver and Memory Saver.
Chrome has tools to help you manage the tabs you’re not quite ready to close. Group, label, and color code your tabs to stay organized and work faster.
Chrome is built to work with your device across platforms. That means a smooth experience on whatever you’re working with.
There’s a new Chrome update every four weeks, making it easy to have the newest features and a faster, safer browser.
Chrome has Google Password Manager built in, which makes it simple to save, manage, and protect your passwords online. It also helps you create stronger passwords for every account you use.
Browse with the confidence that you're staying safer online.
Chrome's Safe Browsing warns you about malware or phishing attacks. Turn on Enhanced Safe Browsing for even more safety protections.
Check your safety level in real time with just one click.
Chrome's Safety Check confirms the overall security and privacy of your browsing experience, including your saved passwords, extensions, and settings. If something needs attention, Chrome will help you fix it.
Keep your privacy under your control with easy-to-use settings.
Chrome makes it easy to understand exactly what you’re sharing online and who you’re sharing it with. Simply use the Privacy Guide, a step-by-step tour of your privacy settings.
Personalize your web browser with themes, dark mode and other options built just for you.
Sign in to Chrome on any device to access your bookmarks, saved passwords, and more.
Use Chrome to save addresses, passwords, and more to quickly autofill your details.
Personalize your web browser with themes, dark mode and other options built just for you.
Sign in to Chrome on any device to access your bookmarks, saved passwords, and more.
Use Chrome to save addresses, passwords, and more to quickly autofill your details.
From shopping and entertainment to productivity, find extensions to improve your experience in the Chrome Web Store.
Access AI superpowers while you browse.
Google is integrating artificial intelligence to make our products more useful. We use AI for features like Search, Google Translate, and more, and we’re innovating new technologies responsibly.
The search bar you love, built right in.
Access a world of knowledge at your fingertips. Check the weather, solve math equations, and get instant search results, all contained inside your browser’s address bar.
Get things done, with or without Wi-Fi.
Get things done in Gmail, Google Docs, Google Slides, Google Sheets, Google Translate and Google Drive, even without an Internet connection.
To install Chrome, simply download the installation file, then look for it in your downloads folder. Open the file and follow the instructions. Once Chrome is installed, you can delete the install file. Learn more about downloading Chrome here.
Does Chrome work on my operating system?
Chrome is compatible with devices that run Windows and Mac operating systems, provided they meet the minimum system requirements. In order to install Chrome and receive adequate support, you must meet the system requirements. Learn more about using Chrome on your device.
How do I make Chrome my default browser?
You can set Chrome as your default browser on Windows or Mac operating systems as well as your iPhone, iPad or Android device. When you set Chrome as your default browser, any link you click will automatically open in Chrome. Find specific instructions for your device here.
Chrome uses cutting-edge safety and security features to help you manage your safety. Use Safety Check to instantly audit for compromised passwords, safe browsing status and any available Chrome updates. Learn more about safety and security on Chrome.
Download Chrome on your mobile device or tablet and sign into your account for the same browser experience, everywhere.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
Not Debian/Ubuntu or Fedora/openSUSE? There may be a community-supported version for your distribution. See Linux Chromium packages
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Note: Installing Google Chrome will add the Google repository so your system will automatically keep Google Chrome up to date. If you don’t want Google's repository, do “sudo touch /etc/default/google-chrome” before installing the package.
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
Looks like you’re already using Chrome browser. Nice!
The device you have runs on ChromeOS, which already has Chrome browser built-in. No need to manually install or update it — with automatic updates, you’ll always get the latest version. Learn more about automatic updates.
Looking for Chrome for a different operating system?
See the full list of supported operating systems.
Firefox
Get Firefox for desktop — Mozilla (US)
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Get the not-for-profit-backed browser on Windows, Mac or Linux.
Get the customizable mobile browser for Android smartphones.
Get the mobile browser for your iPhone or iPad.
Learn how Firefox treats your data with respect.
Read about new Firefox features and ways to stay safe online.
Get the details on the latest Firefox updates.
See if your email has appeared in a company’s data breach.
Help prevent Facebook from collecting your data outside their site.
Save and discover the best stories from across the web.
Get protection beyond your browser, on all your devices.
Learn how each Firefox product protects and respects your data.
Sign up for new accounts without handing over your email address.
New features and tools for a customized MDN experience
Learn about the values and principles that guide our mission.
Meet the not-for-profit behind Firefox that stands for a better web.
Join the fight for a healthy internet.
Stories about how our people and products are changing the world for the better.
Meet the team that’s building technology for a better internet.
Work for a mission-driven organization that makes people-first products.
Learn about Mozilla and the issues that matter to us.
Gather in this interactive, online, multi-dimensional social space.
Get the Firefox browser built just for developers.
Check out the home for web developer resources.
Donate your voice so the future of the web can hear everyone.
Discover ways to bring bright ideas to life.
Get the browser that protects what’s important
No shady privacy policies or back doors for advertisers. Just a lightning fast browser that doesn’t sell you out.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Download options and other languages
Firefox View lets you see your tabs open on other devices and recent history.
Forget printing a PDF ever again. Start editing forms in Firefox directly.
Firefox’s Total cookie protection gives you outstanding privacy by default.
Do what you do online. Firefox Browser isn’t watching.
How Firefox compares to other browsers
Get all the speed and tools with none of the invasions of privacy. Firefox Browser collects so little data about you, we don’t even require your email address to download. That’s because unlike other browsers, we have no financial stake in following you around the web.
How we compare to other browsers
Compare Firefox to:ChromeEdgeSafari
Blocks third-party tracking cookies by default
We block the ad trackers. You explore the internet faster.
Ads are distracting and make web pages load slower while their trackers watch every move you make online. The Firefox Browser blocks most trackers automatically, so there’s no need to dig into your security settings.
Available in over 90 languages, and compatible with Windows, Mac and Linux machines, Firefox works no matter what you’re using or where you are. Make sure your operating system is up to date for the best experience.
Take your privacy with you everywhere. Firefox Browsers for iOS and Android have the same strong privacy settings to block trackers from following you around the web, no matter where you are.
Bookmark, history and open tab in results
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
From security to news to gaming, there’s an extension for everyone. Add as many as you want until your browser is just right.
Go from light mode to dark mode depending on your mood or preference, or liven things up with a custom theme (rainbow unicorn, perhaps).
There’s no need to settle. Change up the new tab page, search bar, bookmarks and more to explore the internet the way you want.
Backed by the non-profit that puts people first
Challenging the status quo since 1998
Firefox was created by Mozilla as a faster, more private alternative to browsers like Internet Explorer, and now Chrome. Today, our mission-driven company and volunteer community continue to put your privacy above all else.
As the internet grows and changes, Firefox continues to focus on your right to privacy  — we call it the Personal Data Promise: Take less. Keep it safe. No secrets. Your data, your web activity, your life online is protected with Firefox.
Keep all your favorite browser features — and discover new ones.
All your favorite Google tools (like Gmail and Docs) work seamlessly in the Firefox Browser.
Download this browser extension to stop Facebook (and Instagram) from tracking you around the web.
Firefox is available on all your devices; take your tabs, history and bookmarks with you. All you need is a Mozilla account and you’ll get access to syncing and more Mozilla products.
Grab a high-resolution image of anything online with our screenshot tool built right in the browser
Enhanced Tracking Protection (ETP)
Firefox automatically blocks many third party trackers from collecting and selling your web activity.
From watching a web tutorial to keeping an eye on your favorite team, your video follows you while you multitask.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Questions? Mozilla support has you covered.
Download the Firefox mobile browser for automatic protection on all your devices.
Learn about the Firefox desktop browser below
You’ve already got the browser. Now get even more from Firefox.
Watch for hackers with Firefox Monitor, protect your email address with Firefox Relay, and more.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Community Participation Guidelines
Visit Mozilla Corporation’s not-for-profit parent, the Mozilla Foundation.
Portions of this content are ©1998–2024 by individual mozilla.org contributors. Content available under a Creative Commons license.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Meet Mozilla’s family of products
Edge
Chrome
Google Chrome - The Fast & Secure Web Browser Built to be Yours
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
Chrome is built for performance. Optimize your experience with features like Energy Saver and Memory Saver.
Chrome has tools to help you manage the tabs you’re not quite ready to close. Group, label, and color code your tabs to stay organized and work faster.
Chrome is built to work with your device across platforms. That means a smooth experience on whatever you’re working with.
There’s a new Chrome update every four weeks, making it easy to have the newest features and a faster, safer browser.
Chrome is built for performance. Optimize your experience with features like Energy Saver and Memory Saver.
Chrome has tools to help you manage the tabs you’re not quite ready to close. Group, label, and color code your tabs to stay organized and work faster.
Chrome is built to work with your device across platforms. That means a smooth experience on whatever you’re working with.
There’s a new Chrome update every four weeks, making it easy to have the newest features and a faster, safer browser.
Chrome has Google Password Manager built in, which makes it simple to save, manage, and protect your passwords online. It also helps you create stronger passwords for every account you use.
Browse with the confidence that you're staying safer online.
Chrome's Safe Browsing warns you about malware or phishing attacks. Turn on Enhanced Safe Browsing for even more safety protections.
Check your safety level in real time with just one click.
Chrome's Safety Check confirms the overall security and privacy of your browsing experience, including your saved passwords, extensions, and settings. If something needs attention, Chrome will help you fix it.
Keep your privacy under your control with easy-to-use settings.
Chrome makes it easy to understand exactly what you’re sharing online and who you’re sharing it with. Simply use the Privacy Guide, a step-by-step tour of your privacy settings.
Personalize your web browser with themes, dark mode and other options built just for you.
Sign in to Chrome on any device to access your bookmarks, saved passwords, and more.
Use Chrome to save addresses, passwords, and more to quickly autofill your details.
Personalize your web browser with themes, dark mode and other options built just for you.
Sign in to Chrome on any device to access your bookmarks, saved passwords, and more.
Use Chrome to save addresses, passwords, and more to quickly autofill your details.
From shopping and entertainment to productivity, find extensions to improve your experience in the Chrome Web Store.
Access AI superpowers while you browse.
Google is integrating artificial intelligence to make our products more useful. We use AI for features like Search, Google Translate, and more, and we’re innovating new technologies responsibly.
The search bar you love, built right in.
Access a world of knowledge at your fingertips. Check the weather, solve math equations, and get instant search results, all contained inside your browser’s address bar.
Get things done, with or without Wi-Fi.
Get things done in Gmail, Google Docs, Google Slides, Google Sheets, Google Translate and Google Drive, even without an Internet connection.
To install Chrome, simply download the installation file, then look for it in your downloads folder. Open the file and follow the instructions. Once Chrome is installed, you can delete the install file. Learn more about downloading Chrome here.
Does Chrome work on my operating system?
Chrome is compatible with devices that run Windows and Mac operating systems, provided they meet the minimum system requirements. In order to install Chrome and receive adequate support, you must meet the system requirements. Learn more about using Chrome on your device.
How do I make Chrome my default browser?
You can set Chrome as your default browser on Windows or Mac operating systems as well as your iPhone, iPad or Android device. When you set Chrome as your default browser, any link you click will automatically open in Chrome. Find specific instructions for your device here.
Chrome uses cutting-edge safety and security features to help you manage your safety. Use Safety Check to instantly audit for compromised passwords, safe browsing status and any available Chrome updates. Learn more about safety and security on Chrome.
Download Chrome on your mobile device or tablet and sign into your account for the same browser experience, everywhere.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This computer will no longer receive Google Chrome updates because macOS 10.6 - 10.12 are no longer supported.
This device won’t receive updates because Google Chrome no longer supports your operating system.
Not Debian/Ubuntu or Fedora/openSUSE? There may be a community-supported version for your distribution. See Linux Chromium packages
Set Google Chrome as my default browser
Help make Google Chrome better by automatically sending usage statistics and crash reports to Google.
Note: Installing Google Chrome will add the Google repository so your system will automatically keep Google Chrome up to date. If you don’t want Google's repository, do “sudo touch /etc/default/google-chrome” before installing the package.
By downloading Chrome, you agree to the Google Terms of Service and Chrome and ChromeOS Additional Terms of Service
Looks like you’re already using Chrome browser. Nice!
The device you have runs on ChromeOS, which already has Chrome browser built-in. No need to manually install or update it — with automatic updates, you’ll always get the latest version. Learn more about automatic updates.
Looking for Chrome for a different operating system?
See the full list of supported operating systems.
Firefox
Get Firefox for desktop — Mozilla (US)
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Get the not-for-profit-backed browser on Windows, Mac or Linux.
Get the customizable mobile browser for Android smartphones.
Get the mobile browser for your iPhone or iPad.
Learn how Firefox treats your data with respect.
Read about new Firefox features and ways to stay safe online.
Get the details on the latest Firefox updates.
See if your email has appeared in a company’s data breach.
Help prevent Facebook from collecting your data outside their site.
Save and discover the best stories from across the web.
Get protection beyond your browser, on all your devices.
Learn how each Firefox product protects and respects your data.
Sign up for new accounts without handing over your email address.
New features and tools for a customized MDN experience
Learn about the values and principles that guide our mission.
Meet the not-for-profit behind Firefox that stands for a better web.
Join the fight for a healthy internet.
Stories about how our people and products are changing the world for the better.
Meet the team that’s building technology for a better internet.
Work for a mission-driven organization that makes people-first products.
Learn about Mozilla and the issues that matter to us.
Gather in this interactive, online, multi-dimensional social space.
Get the Firefox browser built just for developers.
Check out the home for web developer resources.
Donate your voice so the future of the web can hear everyone.
Discover ways to bring bright ideas to life.
Get the browser that protects what’s important
No shady privacy policies or back doors for advertisers. Just a lightning fast browser that doesn’t sell you out.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Download options and other languages
Firefox View lets you see your tabs open on other devices and recent history.
Forget printing a PDF ever again. Start editing forms in Firefox directly.
Firefox’s Total cookie protection gives you outstanding privacy by default.
Do what you do online. Firefox Browser isn’t watching.
How Firefox compares to other browsers
Get all the speed and tools with none of the invasions of privacy. Firefox Browser collects so little data about you, we don’t even require your email address to download. That’s because unlike other browsers, we have no financial stake in following you around the web.
How we compare to other browsers
Compare Firefox to:ChromeEdgeSafari
Blocks third-party tracking cookies by default
We block the ad trackers. You explore the internet faster.
Ads are distracting and make web pages load slower while their trackers watch every move you make online. The Firefox Browser blocks most trackers automatically, so there’s no need to dig into your security settings.
Available in over 90 languages, and compatible with Windows, Mac and Linux machines, Firefox works no matter what you’re using or where you are. Make sure your operating system is up to date for the best experience.
Take your privacy with you everywhere. Firefox Browsers for iOS and Android have the same strong privacy settings to block trackers from following you around the web, no matter where you are.
Bookmark, history and open tab in results
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
From security to news to gaming, there’s an extension for everyone. Add as many as you want until your browser is just right.
Go from light mode to dark mode depending on your mood or preference, or liven things up with a custom theme (rainbow unicorn, perhaps).
There’s no need to settle. Change up the new tab page, search bar, bookmarks and more to explore the internet the way you want.
Backed by the non-profit that puts people first
Challenging the status quo since 1998
Firefox was created by Mozilla as a faster, more private alternative to browsers like Internet Explorer, and now Chrome. Today, our mission-driven company and volunteer community continue to put your privacy above all else.
As the internet grows and changes, Firefox continues to focus on your right to privacy  — we call it the Personal Data Promise: Take less. Keep it safe. No secrets. Your data, your web activity, your life online is protected with Firefox.
Keep all your favorite browser features — and discover new ones.
All your favorite Google tools (like Gmail and Docs) work seamlessly in the Firefox Browser.
Download this browser extension to stop Facebook (and Instagram) from tracking you around the web.
Firefox is available on all your devices; take your tabs, history and bookmarks with you. All you need is a Mozilla account and you’ll get access to syncing and more Mozilla products.
Grab a high-resolution image of anything online with our screenshot tool built right in the browser
Enhanced Tracking Protection (ETP)
Firefox automatically blocks many third party trackers from collecting and selling your web activity.
From watching a web tutorial to keeping an eye on your favorite team, your video follows you while you multitask.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Questions? Mozilla support has you covered.
Download the Firefox mobile browser for automatic protection on all your devices.
Learn about the Firefox desktop browser below
You’ve already got the browser. Now get even more from Firefox.
Watch for hackers with Firefox Monitor, protect your email address with Firefox Relay, and more.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Community Participation Guidelines
Visit Mozilla Corporation’s not-for-profit parent, the Mozilla Foundation.
Portions of this content are ©1998–2024 by individual mozilla.org contributors. Content available under a Creative Commons license.
Firefox is no longer supported on Windows 8.1 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Firefox is no longer supported on macOS 10.14 and below.
Please download Firefox ESR (Extended Support Release) to use Firefox.
Meet Mozilla’s family of products
Edge
