Topic - "CALIFORNIA TITLE IX DOCUMENTATION"

Democratic State (Blue Region) (This is crawled data)

Gender Equity/Title IX  - Equal Opportunity & Access (CA Dept of Education)
CA Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP)
English Language Proficiency Assessments for CA (ELPAC)
California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System (CALPADS)
It is the policy of the State of California that all persons, regardless  of their gender, should enjoy freedom from discrimination of any kind in the  educational institution of the state. The laws found in the
are  collectively known as the Sex Equity in Education Act. These laws expand upon gender  equity and Title IX laws which provide guidance to California’s education system.  Each Local Educational Agency (LEA) will be responsible for following the laws  in addition to Title IX requirements.
Senate Bill 1375 (California Education  Code, 221.61), creates new requirements for the Title IX coordinators’ informational  posts. Title IX coordinators should carefully read and disseminate the  following:
On or before July 1, 2017, public schools,  private schools that receive federal funds and are subject to the requirements  of Title IX, school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools  shall post in a prominent and conspicuous location on their Internet Web sites  all of the following:
The name and  contact information of the Title IX coordinator for that public school, private  school, school district, county office of education, or charter school, which  shall include the Title IX coordinator’s phone number and email address.
The rights of a  pupil and the public and the responsibilities of the public school, private  school, school district, county office of education, or charter school under  Title IX, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, Internet Web links  to information about those rights and responsibilities located on the Internet  Web sites of the department’s Office for Equal Opportunity and the United  States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights, and the list of rights  specified in Section 221.8.
A description of  how to file a complaint under Title IX, which shall include all of the  following:
An explanation of the statute of  limitations within which a complaint must be filed after an alleged incident of  discrimination has occurred, and how a complaint may be filed beyond the  statute of limitations.
An explanation of how the complaint will be  investigated and how the complainant may further pursue the complaint,  including, but not limited to, Internet Web links to this information on the  United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights’ Internet Web  site.
An Internet Web link to the United States  Department of Education Office for Civil Rights complaints form, and the  contact information for the office, which shall include the phone number and  email address for the office.
On or before April 1, 2017, and annually  thereafter, the Superintendent shall send a letter through electronic means to  all public schools, private schools that receive federal funds and are subject  to the requirements of Title IX, school districts, county offices of education,  and charter schools informing them of the requirement specified in subdivision  (a) and of their responsibilities under Title IX.
A public school that does not maintain an  Internet Web site may comply with subdivision (a) by posting the information  specified in paragraphs (1) to (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) on the  Internet Web site of its school district or county office of education.
Nothing in this section shall be construed  to require a school or local educational agency to establish an Internet Web  site if the school or local educational agency does not already maintain one.
Title  IX is a federal law that was passed in 1972 to ensure that male and female  students and employees in educational settings are treated equally and fairly.  It protects against discrimination based on sex (including sexual harassment).  In addition, Title IX protects transgender students and students who do not  conform to gender stereotypes. State law also prohibits discrimination based on  gender (sex), gender expression, gender identity, and sexual orientation. The  preamble to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 states that:
“No  person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from  participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination  under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.”
Title  IX requires that each school district have at least one person designated as  the Title IX Coordinator.
From the regulations  governing Title  IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
On May 6th, 2020 the U.S. Department of Education,  Office for Civil Rights (OCR), released a finalized version of the new Title IX Regulations. Amendments to Title IX became effective on August  14, 2020. Specifically, The Final Rule changes the way in which institutions  and local education agencies are required to respond to allegations of sexual  harassment. The new Title IX regulations are intended to clarify sexual  harassment as a form of sex discrimination and expand on the definition of  sexual harassment.The new Title IX regulation  can be found in the Code of Federal Regulations at 34 CFR Part 106 .
106.8 Designation of  coordinator, dissemination of policy, and adoption of grievance procedures.
Each  recipient must designate and authorize at least one employee to coordinate its  efforts to comply with its responsibilities under this part, which employee  must be referred to as the “Title IX Coordinator.” The recipient must notify  applicants for admission and employment, students, parents or legal guardians  of elementary and secondary school students, employees, and all unions or  professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional  agreements with the recipient, of the name or title, office address, electronic  mail address, and telephone number of the employee or employees designated as  the Title IX Coordinator pursuant to this paragraph. Any person may report sex  discrimination, including sexual harassment (whether or not the person  reporting is the person alleged to be the victim of conduct that could  constitute sex discrimination or sexual harassment), in person, by mail, by  telephone, or by electronic mail, using the contact information listed for the  Title IX Coordinator, or by any other means that results in the Title IX  Coordinator receiving the person's verbal or written report. Such a report may  be made at any time (including during non-business hours) by using the  telephone number or electronic mail address, or by mail to the office address,  listed for the Title IX Coordinator.
Each  recipient must notify persons entitled to a notification under paragraph (a) of  this section that the recipient does not discriminate on the basis of sex in  the education program or activity that it operates, and that it is required by  title IX and this part not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification  must state that the requirement not to discriminate in the education program or  activity extends to admission (unless subpart C of this part does not apply)  and employment, and that inquiries about the application of title IX and this  part to such recipient may be referred to the recipient's Title IX Coordinator,  to the Assistant Secretary, or both.
Each recipient must  prominently display the contact information required to be listed for the Title  IX Coordinator under paragraph (a) of this section and the policy described in  paragraph (b)(1) of this section on its website, if any, and in each handbook  or catalog that it makes available to persons entitled to a notification under  paragraph (a) of this section.
A recipient must not  use or distribute a publication stating that the recipient treats applicants,  students, or employees differently on the basis of sex except as such treatment  is permitted by title IX or this part.
A recipient must adopt and publish  grievance procedures that provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of  student and employee complaints alleging any action that would be prohibited by  this part and a grievance process that complies with Sec. 106.45 for formal  complaints as defined in Sec. 106.30. A recipient must provide to persons  entitled to a notification under paragraph (a) of this section notice of the  recipient's grievance procedures and grievance process, including how to report  or file a complaint of sex discrimination, how to report or file a formal  complaint of sexual harassment, and how the recipient will respond.
California Department of Education’s Title IX Coordinator:
Equity, Civil Rights, Title IX,  ADA/504, MOA Coordinator
(PDF) - The United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights  (OCR) sent this letter, on April 24, 2015, as an introduction to all new Title  IX coordinators.
(PDF) - The OCR sent this letter, on April 24, 2015, as a reminder to all  Title IX coordinators of their responsibilities.
(PDF) - A Title IX booklet published by OCR to assist Title IX  coordinators in understanding the scope and procedures.
Education  Equity/Title IX Resources from the Feminist Majority
State  and federal law protects students from all forms of sexual harassment  (including sexual violence and sexual abuse). Any student, regardless of their  gender, may potentially face sexual harassment which can interfere with a  student’s academic performance, as well as their emotional and physical  well-being. Preventing and remedying sexual harassment in schools is essential  to ensuring a safe environment in which students can learn. Title IX  coordinators are in the best position to prevent harassment and to lessen the  harm to students if, despite their best efforts, acts of sexual harassment do  occur.
To assist coordinators  in eliminating sexual harassment from schools the United States Department of  Education Office of Civil Rights (OCR) has developed a webpage on
, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
In 2006, new Title IX  regulations for the establishment of single sex programs in schools were  adopted by the OCR. Many  factors and legal requirements must be addressed if schools are considering the  development of single-sex options. The regulations related to single sex programs  can be found in California Education Code 221.5
Guidelines  on Title IX Requirements Related to Single-Sex Classes and Schools 2002
Dear  Colleague Letter on Single-Sex Programs and Title IX 2007
, each  public elementary, secondary, and charter school in California, that offers  competitive athletics, are required to make the following information available  to the public at the end of each school year:
The  total enrollment of the school, classified by gender.
The  number of pupils enrolled at the school who participate in competitive  athletics, classified by gender.
The  number of male and female teams, classified by sport and by competition level.
Competitive  Athletics are defined as sports where the activity has coaches, a governing  organization, practices, competes during a defined season, and has competition  as its primary goal. The required data as stated above should  reflect the total number of players on a team roster on the official first day  of competition. Schools should post the information on the school’s website. If the school does not maintain a website,  the school district or charter operator shall post the information on its  website. All materials used by the school to compile the data are to be  retained by the school for a minimum of three years after the information has  been posted.
Complaints pertaining to Title IX issues should be filed by utilizing  the Uniform Complaint Procedures (UCP) as identified in California Code of  Regulations, Title 5, Sections 4600 et. seq. For more information on the  UCP complaints and appeals visit the CDE’s Uniform  Complaint Procedures and Resolution  of Discrimination/Harassment Complaint pages.
Office of Equal Opportunity |  oeoinfo@cde.ca.gov | 916-445-9174
Professional Learning Support Division  (added 06-Dec-2023)
Contact information for branches and divisions of the California Department of Education.
California Education Code 221.5-231.5
Education Code - EDCTITLE 1 GENERAL EDUCATION CODE PROVISIONS [1. - 32527]  ( Title 1 enacted by Stats. 1976, Ch. 1010. )DIVISION 1 GENERAL EDUCATION CODE PROVISIONS [1. - 32527]  ( Division 1 enacted by Stats. 1976, Ch. 1010. )PART 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS [1. - 446]  ( Part 1 enacted by Stats. 1976, Ch. 1010. )CHAPTER 2. Educational Equity [200 - 270]  ( Heading of Chapter 2 amended by Stats. 1998, Ch. 914, Sec. 6. )ARTICLE 4. Sex Equity in Education Act [221.5 - 231.7]  ( Article 4 heading added by Stats. 1998, Ch. 914, Sec. 18. )221.5.  (a) It is the policy of the state that elementary and secondary school classes and courses, including nonacademic and elective classes and courses, be conducted, without regard to the sex of the pupil enrolled in
these classes and courses.(b) A school district shall not prohibit a pupil from enrolling in any class or course on the basis of the sex of the pupil, except a class subject to Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section 51930) of Part 28 of Division 4 of Title 2.(c) A school district shall not require a pupil of one sex to enroll in a particular class or course, unless the same class or course is also required of a pupil of the opposite sex.(d) A school counselor, teacher, instructor, administrator, or aide shall not, on the basis of the sex of a pupil, offer vocational or school program guidance to a pupil of one sex that is different from that offered to a pupil of the opposite sex or, in counseling a pupil, differentiate career, vocational, or higher education opportunities on the basis of the sex of the pupil
counseled. Any school personnel acting in a career counseling or course selection capacity to a pupil shall affirmatively explore with the pupil the possibility of careers, or courses leading to careers, that are nontraditional for that pupil’s sex. The parents or legal guardian of the pupil shall be notified in a general manner at least once in the manner prescribed by Section 48980, in advance of career counseling and course selection commencing with course selection for grade 7 so that they may participate in the counseling sessions and decisions.(e) Participation in a particular physical education activity or sport, if required of pupils of one sex, shall be available to pupils of each sex.(f) A pupil shall be permitted to participate in sex-segregated school programs and activities, including athletic teams and competitions, and use facilities consistent with his or her
gender identity, irrespective of the gender listed on the pupil’s records.(Amended by Stats. 2014, Ch. 71, Sec. 25.   (SB 1304)   Effective January 1, 2015.)221.51.  (a) A local educational agency shall not apply any rule concerning a pupil’s actual or potential parental, family, or marital status that treats pupils differently on the basis of sex.(b) A local educational agency shall not exclude nor deny any pupil from any educational program or activity, including class or extracurricular activity, solely on the basis of the pupil’s pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.(c) A local educational agency may require any pupil to obtain the certification of a physician or nurse practitioner that the pupil is physically and emotionally able to continue participation in the regular education program
or activity.(d) Pregnant or parenting pupils shall not be required to participate in pregnant minor programs or alternative education programs. Pregnant or parenting pupils who voluntarily participate in alternative education programs shall be given educational programs, activities, and courses equal to those they would have been in if participating in the regular education program.(e) A local educational agency shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disabling condition.(f) For purposes of this section, “local educational agency” means a school district, a county office of education, a school operated by a school district or a county office of education, a charter school, the
California Schools for the Deaf, or the California School for the Blind.(Added by Stats. 2018, Ch. 942, Sec. 2.   (AB 2289)   Effective January 1, 2019.)221.6.  On or before July 1, 2006, the department shall post on its Internet Web site, in both English and Spanish and at a reading level that may be comprehended by pupils in high school, the information set forth in the federal regulations implementing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Sec. 1681 et seq.).(Amended by Stats. 2016, Ch. 86, Sec. 52.   (SB 1171)   Effective January 1, 2017.)221.61.  (a) On or before July 1, 2017, public schools, private schools that receive federal funds and are subject to the requirements of Title IX, school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools shall post in a prominent and conspicuous location on their Internet Web sites all of the following:(1) The name and contact information of the Title IX coordinator for that public school, private school, school district, county office of education, or charter school, which shall include the Title IX coordinator’s phone number and email address.(2) The rights of a pupil and the public and the
responsibilities of the public school, private school, school district, county office of education, or charter school under Title IX, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, Internet Web links to information about those rights and responsibilities located on the Internet Web sites of the department’s Office for Equal Opportunity and the United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights, and the list of rights specified in Section 221.8.(3) A description of how to file a complaint under Title IX, which shall include all of the following:(A) An explanation of the statute of limitations within which a complaint must be filed after an alleged incident of discrimination has occurred, and how a complaint may be filed beyond the statute of limitations.(B) An explanation of how the complaint will be investigated and how the complainant may further pursue the complaint, including, but not limited to, Internet Web links to this information on the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights’ Internet Web site.(C) An Internet Web link to the United States Department of Education Office for Civil Rights complaints form, and the contact information for the office, which shall include the phone number and email address for the office.(b) On or before April 1, 2017, and annually thereafter, the Superintendent shall send a letter through electronic means to all public schools, private schools that receive federal funds and are subject to the
requirements of Title IX, school districts, county offices of education, and charter schools informing them of the requirement specified in subdivision (a) and of their responsibilities under Title IX.(c) A public school that does not maintain an Internet Web site may comply with subdivision (a) by posting the information specified in paragraphs (1) to (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) on the Internet Web site of its school district or county office of education.(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a school or local educational agency to establish an Internet Web site if the school or local educational agency does not already maintain one. (Added by Stats. 2016, Ch. 655, Sec. 2.   (SB 1375)   Effective January 1, 2017.)221.7.  (a) The Legislature finds and declares that female pupils are not accorded opportunities for participation in school-sponsored athletic programs equal to those accorded male pupils. It is the intent of the Legislature that opportunities for participation in athletics be provided equally to male and female pupils.(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, no public funds shall be used in connection with any athletic program conducted under the auspices of a
school district governing board or any student organization within the district, which does not provide equal opportunity to both sexes for participation and for use of facilities. Facilities and participation include, but are not limited to, equipment and supplies, scheduling of games and practice time, compensation for coaches, travel arrangements, per diem, locker rooms, and medical services.(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a school district to require competition between male and female pupils in school-sponsored athletic programs.(Added by renumbering Section 41 by Stats. 1998, Ch. 914, Sec. 3.   Effective January 1, 1999.)221.8.  The following list of rights, which are based on the relevant provisions of the federal regulations implementing Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. Sec. 1681 et seq.), may be used by the department for purposes of Section 221.6:(a) You have the right to fair and equitable treatment and you shall not be discriminated against based on your
sex.(b) You have the right to be provided with an equitable opportunity to participate in all academic extracurricular activities, including athletics.(c) You have the right to inquire of the athletic director of your school as to the athletic opportunities offered by the school.(d) You have the right to apply for athletic scholarships.(e) You have the right to receive equitable treatment and benefits in the provision of all of the following:(1) Equipment and supplies.(2) Scheduling of games and practices.(3) Transportation and daily allowances.(4) Access to tutoring.(5) Coaching.(6) Locker rooms.(7) Practice and competitive facilities.(8) Medical and training facilities and services.(9) Publicity.(f) You have the right to have access to a gender equity coordinator to answer questions regarding gender equity laws.(g) You have the right to contact the State Department of Education and the California Interscholastic Federation to access information on gender equity laws.(h) You have the right to file a confidential discrimination complaint with the United States Office of Civil Rights or the State Department of Education if you believe you have been discriminated against or if you believe you have received unequal treatment on the basis of your sex.(i) You have the right to pursue civil remedies if you have been discriminated against.(j) You have the right to be protected against retaliation if you file a discrimination complaint.(Added by renumbering Section 271 by Stats. 2015, Ch. 43, Sec. 3.   (AB 1538)   Effective January 1, 2016.)221.9.  (a) Commencing with the 2015–16 school year and every year thereafter, each public elementary and secondary school in the state, including each charter school, that offers competitive athletics shall publicly make available at the end of the school year all of the following information:(1) The total enrollment of the school, classified by gender.(2) The number of pupils enrolled at the school who participate in competitive athletics, classified by gender.(3) The number of boys’ and girls’ teams, classified by sport and by competition level.(b) The data required pursuant to subdivision (a) shall reflect the total number of players on a team roster on the official first day of competition.(c) The school shall make the information specified in subdivision (a) publicly available as follows:(1) If the school maintains an Internet Web site, by posting the information on the school’s Internet Web site.(2) If the school does not maintain an Internet Web site, by submitting the information to its school district or, for a
charter school, to its charter operator. The school district or charter operator shall post the information on its Internet Web site, and the information shall be disaggregated by schoolsite.(d) The materials used by a school to compile the information specified in subdivision (a) shall be retained by the school for at least three years after the information is posted on the Internet pursuant to subdivision (c).(e) As used in this section, “competitive athletics” means sports where the activity has coaches, a governing organization, and practices, and competes during a defined season, and has competition as its primary goal.(Added by Stats. 2014, Ch. 258, Sec. 2.   (SB 1349)   Effective January 1, 2015.)222.  (a) A school operated by a school district or a county office of education, the California School for the Deaf, the California School for the Blind, and a charter school shall provide reasonable accommodations to a lactating pupil on a school campus to express breast milk, breast-feed an infant child, or address other needs related to breast-feeding. Reasonable accommodations under this section include, but are not limited to, all of the following:(1) Access to a private and secure room, other than a restroom, to express breast milk or breast-feed an infant child.(2) Permission to bring onto a school campus a
breast pump and any other equipment used to express breast milk.(3) Access to a power source for a breast pump or any other equipment used to express breast milk.(4) Access to a place to store expressed breast milk safely.(b) A lactating pupil on a school campus shall be provided a reasonable amount of time to accommodate her need to express breast milk or breast-feed an infant child.(c) A school specified in subdivision (a) shall provide the reasonable accommodations specified in subdivisions (a) and (b) only if there is at least one lactating pupil on the school campus.(d) A school subject to
this section may use an existing facility to meet the requirements specified in subdivision (a).(e) A pupil shall not incur an academic penalty as a result of her use, during the schoolday, of the reasonable accommodations specified in this section, and shall be provided the opportunity to make up any work missed due to such use.(f) (1) A complaint of noncompliance with the requirements of this section may be filed with the local educational agency under the Uniform Complaint Procedures set forth in Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.(2) A local educational agency shall respond to a complaint filed pursuant to paragraph (1)
in accordance with Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations.(3) A complainant not satisfied with the decision of a local educational agency may appeal the decision to the department pursuant to Chapter 5.1 (commencing with Section 4600) of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and shall receive a written decision regarding the appeal within 60 days of the department’s receipt of the appeal.(4) If a local educational agency finds merit in a complaint, or if the Superintendent finds merit in an appeal, the local educational agency
shall provide a remedy to the affected pupil.(Added by Stats. 2015, Ch. 690, Sec. 2.   (AB 302)   Effective January 1, 2016.)222.5.  (a) A local educational agency shall notify pregnant and parenting pupils of their rights and options available under the law through annual school year welcome packets and through independent study packets.(b) A local educational agency shall annually notify parents and guardians of pupils at the beginning of the regular school term of the rights and options available to pregnant and parenting pupils under the law.(c) For purposes of this section, “local educational agency” means a school district, a county office of education, a school operated by a school district or a county office of education, a charter school, the California Schools for the Deaf, or the California School
for the Blind.(Added by Stats. 2018, Ch. 942, Sec. 3.   (AB 2289)   Effective January 1, 2019.)223.  This chapter shall not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men’s Christian Association, Young Women’s Christian Association, girl scouts, boy scouts, Camp Fire, or voluntary youth service organizations which are exempt from taxation under subdivision (a) of Section 501 of the federal Internal Revenue Code of 1954, whose membership has traditionally been limited to persons of one sex, and principally to persons of less than 19 years of age.(Amended by Stats. 1998, Ch. 914, Sec. 20.   Effective January 1, 1999.)224.  (a) The sex discrimination provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the American Legion or the American Legion Auxiliary from operating programs and activities undertaken in connection with the organization or operation of any Boys State conference or Girls State conference in a gender-segregated manner provided that these conferences comply with all of the following every year that the conferences take place:(1) The conferences provide substantially similar access to government officials and facilities.(2) The conferences provide substantially similar programming except where the
programming relates to the role of gender in public service specifically.(3) There are an equal number of opportunities for girls to participate in the conferences as there are for boys.(4) Any limitations on the number of pupils that can be nominated to attend the conferences from a single high school apply equally to boys and girls, unless the high school is a single-gender high school.(5) Pupils who do not identify as either male or female, or who do not identify with their assigned gender at birth, are allowed to participate in either
conference.(6) The conferences comply with all other nondiscrimination provisions of state and federal law.(b) Provided that the Boys State conference and the Girls State conference meet all of the requirements of paragraphs (1) to (6), inclusive, of subdivision (a), the sex discrimination provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent any secondary educational institution from engaging in programs or activities specifically for either of the following purposes:(1) The promotion of any Boys State or Girls State conference.(2) The selection of pupils to attend either of those conferences.(c) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2023.(Repealed (in Sec. 1) and added by Stats. 2021, Ch. 676, Sec. 2.   (SB 363)   Effective January 1, 2022.   Operative January 1, 2023, by its own provisions.)224.5.  (a) There is hereby established the gender equity train-the-trainer grant program. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall award grants from funds available for that purpose to the governing boards of school districts and county offices of education for the implementation of programs to train trainers in gender equity.(b) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall, with the approval of the State Board of Education, develop criteria for the grant applications . The
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall select as grant recipients applicants that have clearly demonstrated all of the following:(1) Grant moneys will result in the grantee providing ongoing gender training to all staff members, including certificated and classified staff, and maintaining a pool of knowledgeable gender equity trainers.(2) The applicant has considered other available federal and state funding resources for gender equity training and coordinated those resources, as appropriate with a grant under this section.(c) A grant application shall include an evaluation plan for determining the extent to which the expected benefits of the trainer program are being realized. The results of the evaluation shall be reported to the governing board of the school district or county board of education, as
appropriate.(d) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall implement this section only in fiscal years in which sufficient funds have been appropriated for this purpose. To the extent funds are available in multiple years, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall award grants in a manner that ensures that training is available in all parts of the state.(e) No more than a total of one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000) of state funds may be expended in any fiscal year for purposes of this section.(Added by Stats. 2000, Ch. 459, Sec. 2.   Effective January 1, 2001.)225.  This article shall not preclude father-son or mother-daughter activities at an educational institution, provided that if such activities are offered for students of one sex, opportunities for reasonably comparable activities are offered for students of the other sex.(Added by Stats. 1982, Ch. 1117, Sec. 1.)229.  Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to require any educational institution to grant preferential or disparate treatment to the members of one sex on account of an imbalance which may exist with respect to the total number or percentage of persons of that sex participating in, or receiving the benefits of, any state supported program or activity, in comparison with the total number or percentage of persons of that sex in any community, district, or other area. However, this section shall not be construed to prevent the consideration in any hearing or proceeding under this article of statistical evidence which tends to show that such an
imbalance exists with respect to the participation in, or receipt of the benefits of, any state-supported program or activity by the members of one sex.(Added by Stats. 1982, Ch. 1117, Sec. 1.)230.  For purposes of this chapter, harassment and other discrimination on the basis of sex include, but are not limited to, the following practices:(a) On the basis of sex, exclusion of a person or persons from participation in, denial of the benefits of, or subjection to harassment or other discrimination in, any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other program or activity.(b) On the basis of sex, provision of
different amounts or types of student financial aid, limitation of eligibility for student financial aid, or the application of different criteria to applicants for student financial aid or for participation in the provision of student financial aid by others. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to prohibit an educational institution from administering, or assisting in the administration of, scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of student financial aid, established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, bequests, trusts, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government, which require that awards be made to members of a particular sex; provided, that the overall effect of the award of these sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of student financial aid does not discriminate on the basis of sex.(c) On the basis of sex, exclusion from participation in, or denial of equivalent opportunity in,
athletic programs. For purposes of this subdivision, “equivalent” means equal or equal in effect.(d) An educational institution may be found to have effectively accommodated the interests and abilities in athletics of both sexes within the meaning of Section 4922 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations as that section exists on January 1, 2003, using any one of the following tests:(1) Whether interscholastic level participation opportunities for male and female pupils are provided in numbers substantially proportionate to their respective enrollments.(2) Where the members of one sex have been and are underrepresented among interscholastic athletes, whether the school district can show a history and continuing practice of program expansion that is demonstrably responsive to the developing interest and
abilities of the members of that sex.(3) Where the members of one sex are underrepresented among interscholastic athletes, and the institution cannot show a history and continuing practice of program expansion as required in paragraph (2), whether the school district can demonstrate that the interest and abilities of the members of that sex have been fully and effectively accommodated by the present program.(e) If an educational institution must cut its athletic budget, the educational institution shall do so consistently with its legal obligation to comply with both state and federal gender equity laws.(f) It is the intent of the Legislature that the three-part test articulated in subdivision (d) be interpreted as it has been in the policies and regulations of the Office of Civil Rights in effect on January 1,
2003.(g) On the basis of sex, harassment or other discrimination among persons, including, but not limited to, students and nonstudents, or academic and nonacademic personnel, in employment and the conditions thereof, except as it relates to a bona fide occupational qualification.(h) On the basis of sex, the application of any rule concerning the actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a person, or the exclusion of any person from any program or activity or employment because of pregnancy or related conditions.(Amended by Stats. 2003, Ch. 660, Sec. 1.   Effective January 1, 2004.)231.  Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any educational institution from maintaining separate toilet facilities, locker rooms, or living facilities for the different sexes, so long as comparable facilities are provided.(Added by Stats. 1982, Ch. 1117, Sec. 1.)231.5.  (a) It is the policy of the State of California, pursuant to Section 200, that all persons, regardless of their sex, should enjoy freedom from discrimination of any kind in the educational institutions of the state. The purpose of this section is to provide notification of the prohibition against sexual harassment as a form of sexual discrimination and to provide notification of available remedies.(b) Each educational institution in the State of California shall have a written policy on sexual harassment. It is the intent of the Legislature that each educational institution in this state include this policy in its regular policy statement rather than distribute an additional written document.(c) The educational institution’s written policy on sexual harassment shall include information on where to obtain the specific rules and procedures for reporting charges of sexual harassment and for pursuing available remedies.(d) A copy of the educational institution’s written policy on sexual harassment shall be displayed in a prominent location in the main administrative building or other area of the campus or schoolsite. “Prominent location” means that location, or those locations, in the main administrative building or other area where notices regarding the institution’s rules, regulations, procedures, and standards of conduct are posted. (e) A copy of the educational institution’s written policy on sexual harassment, as
it pertains to pupils, shall be provided as part of any orientation program conducted for new and continuing pupils at the beginning of each quarter, semester, or summer session, as applicable.(f) A copy of the educational institution’s written policy on sexual harassment shall be provided for each faculty member, all members of the administrative staff, and all members of the support staff at the beginning of the first quarter or semester of the school year, or at the time that there is a new employee hired.(g) A copy of the educational institution’s written policy on sexual harassment shall appear in any publication of the institution that sets forth the comprehensive rules, regulations, procedures, and standards of conduct for the institution.(Amended by Stats. 2019, Ch. 428, Sec. 1.   (AB 543)   Effective January 1, 2020.)231.6.  (a) Each schoolsite in a school district, county office of education, or charter school, serving pupils in any of grades 9 through 12, inclusive, shall create a poster that notifies pupils of the applicable written policy on sexual harassment described in Section 231.5.(b) The schoolsite may partner with local, state, or federal agencies, or nonprofit organizations, for purposes of the design and content of the poster.(c) The language in the poster shall be age appropriate and culturally relevant, and the schoolsite may partner with local, state, or federal agencies, or nonprofit organizations, for these purposes.(d) The poster shall
be displayed in English and any primary language spoken by 15 percent or more of the pupils enrolled at the schoolsite as determined pursuant to Section 48985.(e) The poster shall be no smaller than 8.5 by 11 inches and use at least 12-point type.(f) The poster shall display, at a minimum, all of the following:(1) The rules and procedures for reporting a charge of sexual harassment.(2) The name, phone number, and email address of an appropriate schoolsite official to contact to report a charge of sexual harassment.(3) The rights of the reporting pupil, the complainant, and the respondent, and the responsibilities of the schoolsite in accordance with the applicable written policy on
sexual harassment.(g) (1) The poster shall be prominently and conspicuously displayed in each bathroom and locker room at the schoolsite.(2) (A) The poster may be prominently and conspicuously displayed in public areas at the schoolsite that are accessible to, and commonly frequented by, pupils, including, but not limited to, classrooms, classroom hallways, gymnasiums, auditoriums, and cafeterias.(B) The governing board of a school district, governing body of a charter school, and county board of education shall have full discretion to select the appropriate public areas to display the poster at the schoolsite.(Amended by Stats. 2020, Ch. 370, Sec. 44.   (SB 1371)   Effective January 1, 2021.)231.7.  The department shall make all of the following available on the department’s internet website:(a) Resources on abuse, including sexual, emotional, and physical abuse, and teen dating violence prevention for professional learning purposes.(b) Information about local and national hotlines and services for youth experiencing teen dating violence.(c) Other relevant materials for parents, guardians, and other caretakers of pupils.(Added by Stats. 2023, Ch. 65, Sec. 1.   (AB 1071)   Effective January 1, 2024.)
Title  IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
